A

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

A Posteriori
This is a post-research approach where a theoretical framework is developed, based on the results of the research already conducted. 

A Priori
A theoretical framework that is developed prior to research being carried out. 

ABA Routing Number
A number which directs electronic ACH deposits to the proper bank institution. Also referred to as Transit Routing Number. 

Abandon Rate
A measurement of customer service quality based on the percentage of total incoming calls to a customer service centre that are abandoned by customers because they are placed on hold too long. See Call Abandonment or Abandoned Call. 

Abandoned Call
Also called a Lost Call. The caller hangs up before reaching the agent. See Call Abandonment. 

Abnormal Return
A fraction of a return that is not caused by systematic factors. e.g. market wide price movements. 

ABS
Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene, this is a plastic material formed through injection moulding and used in the production of certain Smart Cards. 

Absolute Priority Rule (APR)
The order of payment used in many bankruptcy litigation systems. Typically, major creditors are fully compensated before minor creditors receive anything, and minor creditors are fully compensated before shareholders receive anything. In practice, lower s 

Accelerated Depreciation
A depreciation method which subtracts a higher fraction of an asset's value in the early stages. 

Acceleration Clause
Allows for lenders to require the entire repayment of a loan when the loan is in default. Also see Demand Feature. 

Acceptance Rate
The fraction or percentage of the total number of applications that are granted the credit they applied for. 

Accepts
Applications that pass the credit review process and are subsequently granted credit. 

Access
The name previously used in the UK for some MasterCard cards. The name has now been mostly phased out. 

Access Provider
A company that provides its customers with a service to access the Internet. The user normally connects to the access provider's server via a modem using a dial-up connection. 

Accessibility
The quality of a system, incorporating hardware or software, that makes it usable by people with one or more physical disabilities, such as restricted mobility, blindness, or deafness. 

Accompanied Shopping
A technique used mostly by market researchers. An interviewer accompanies and observes the behaviour of a consenting respondent when they go shopping. 

Account
A credit agreement between a consumer and a credit issuer. An account may be a closed-end agreement, such as an instalment loan, or an open-end agreement, such as a bankcard or retail account (revolving). 

Account Management
The process of dealing with customers across all aspects of their account, such as credit limit management, re-issue, authorisations, collections and marketing. 

Account Management Scorecard
A statistically derived behaviour scorecard developed for predicting the future risk on accounts that are currently in order. These are generally used for setting credit limits, shadow limits, authorisations decisions, marketing solicitations and repricin 

Account Management System
A computer system that automates and manages the ongoing risk management function of accounts. It typically includes behaviour scoring, champion-challenger strategies, decision keys and reporting. It may be run on a mainframe or on personal computers, eit 

Account Number
A unique sequence of numbers assigned to a cardholder account that identifies the issuer and type of financial transaction card. 

Account Processing System
A computer system that processes accounts on a daily and monthly basis. It typically includes account reconciliation, statementing, transaction processing and letter generation. It may be run on a mainframe or on personal computers, either singly or netwo 

Accounting Analytic
A method used in evaluating company credit quality. This process involves in-depth financial analysis and the application of recognised financial ratios. 

Accrued Interest
Interest earned which is then added to the principle amount outstanding. 

ACD
Acronym for Automatic Call Distributor. It is used in call centres for routing calls to available agents, holds overflow calls, gives and takes messages and provides reports. See Automatic Call Distributor, Automated Attendant, Database Call Handling, His 

ACH
Acronym for Automated Call Handling. The process whereby incoming calls are answered and handled by a pre-recorded script, using specialist computer and telecoms equipment. Also see IVR or VIC. 

ACH
Automated Clearing House. A regional organisation used by member banks to electronically transfer funds between members. Also see Internet Cheque Acceptance or Direct Payment. 

ACH Network
A central distribution and settlement point for electronic items exchanged among depository financial institutions. Also see Automated Clearing House or ACH. 

Achieved Communality
A term used in factor analysis to represent the proportion of variance in an original variable, as accounted for by all the extracted factors. Each original variable will have an achieved communality value in the factor analysis output. 

Acknowledgment of Debt
A term used to describe a document from which a debtor’s acknowledgment of a claim or undertaking to pay a debt can be inferred. 

Acquiescence Bias
During an interviewing process, respondents may tend to agree with whatever is presented to them. The danger is that this can create a systematic bias in the results. 

Acquirer
An organisation that recruits a retailer who then accepts credit card transactions. An acquirer is typically a bank or other financial services organisation. 

Acquiring Bank
A bank that acquires credit card transactions via terminals and other Point-of-Sale terminals (POS) at merchant locations. See Customer Lifetime Value. 

Acquiring Processor
The processor provides credit card processing, billing, reporting and settlement, and operational services to the acquirer. Many financial institutions hire a third party for more cost-effective bankcard processing. 

Acquisition Cost
The total cost of signing up a new customer. Lifetime Value is often used to compute the maximum allowable acquisition cost. 

Acquisition Programme
Any marketing activity where the primary intent is to draw response from prospects not currently doing business with an organisation. 

Act of Insolvency
Certain behaviour of, or actions by, a debtor have been designated by the Legislature as acts of insolvency, which tend to show that a debtor is, in fact, insolvent. These acts are set out in each countries insolvency laws. Also see Chapter 11. 

Activation
Encouraging the account holder to make the first transactions on their new credit product. 

Active Data Objects (ADO)
Components that enable client applications to access and manipulate data in a file or server – based database, through a provider. 

Active Hyperlink
A hyperlink that is currently selected in a Web browser. Some Web browsers indicate the active hyperlink by changing its colour. See Hyperlink. 

Active Rule
A rule in a rule set that is turned on and is evaluated. 

ActiveX
A set of technologies that enables software components to interact with one another in a networked environment, regardless of the language in which the components are created. ActiveX is used primarily to develop interactive content for the World Wide Web 

Actuarial Method
Interest on the outstanding balance. Also see Simple Interest Financing. 

Ad-hoc Report
A type of report that is a query or answers a one-off question, such as: how many women over 60 have purchased more than $200 in goods from us in the last 4 months? 

Ad-hoc Research
Research that is specifically designed to address a particular problem or issue. Ad-hoc research is conducted when there is insufficient existing research on the subject. 

Adaptability
The process of testing an existing scorecard to see if it will fit a different applicant population. 

Adaptability Study
The procedure of testing the applicability of a scorecard on a population other than the one used in development. 

Adaptive Control System
A computer system that automates and manages the ongoing risk management function of accounts. It typically includes Behaviour Scoring, Champion-Challenger strategies, Decision Keys and reporting. It may be run on a mainframe or on personal computers, eit 

Add-on 
The1988 Basel Capital Accord recognises that the credit risk of long dated financial derivatives fluctuates in value, and estimates this exposure both in terms of current exposure and potential exposure. The add-on amount that approximates future replacem 

Add-on Interest
One method of calculating instalment-loan finance charges, with interest calculated on the full amount borrowed over the life of the loan. Lenders are required to quote rates in terms of annual interest, so you can compare the true cost of this type of fi 

Additional Cardholder
One credit card account can sometimes have two (or more) credit cards issued on it. The main cardholder is responsible for paying the bill, whoever made the purchases. There is a limit for the account on the total amount that can be spent with the card ea 

Additive
Refers to relationships that do not display high order interaction or association. 

Additive Points
The process of adding points to all of the Attributes of some or all of a scorecard’s characteristics. This will change the score that an applicant will receive, but does not change the rank order of any group of applicants, as they will all receive the s 

Address
A computer term for the location of a piece of information on a disk or in memory. Addresses help the computer to find information rapidly, and to store it for later retrieval. 

Address Verification (AVS)
A service provided through merchant services in which the merchant verifies the cardholder's address. Primarily used by mail/telephone order merchants to combat fraud. It is not a guarantee that a transaction is valid. 

Adjustable Rate Loan or Adjustable Rate Mortgage (
A loan with an interest rate that may be varied during the term of the loan. The payments generally increase or decrease with the interest rate. 

Adjusted Balance
A method of calculating an open-end finance charge, (such as on a charge account), by subtracting payments made during the billing period and applying the interest rate to the balance. 

Administration Order
A temporary freeze on all debts while an administrator, appointed by the court, reviews the debtor’s financial circumstances. 

Administrator
In legal terms, this is the person who administers an estate or a trust. The administrator is court-appointed and has the power to deal with the debts and assets of the estate or trust. 

ADO
Components that enable client applications to access and manipulate data in a file or server-based database, through a provider. Also known as Active Data Objects. 

Adverse Action Notice
A lender’s notice to refuse, end, or reduce credit. Under the U.S. Fair Credit Billing Act, creditors must disclose the reason. 

Affective Component
This is one of the three components of attitude, relating to individual emotions or feelings towards an object or idea. 

Affidavit
A written statement, sworn or affirmed before a Commissioner of Oaths, in the name of the deponent, used to support applications at court or to give evidence. 

Affiliate
Relationship between two companies where one company owns substantial interest, but less than a majority of the voting shares of another company, or when two companies are both subsidiaries of a third company. 

Affinity
A description of people who have a similar lifestyle. 

Affinity Analysis
A process of finding relationships between customer purchases. For example, people who buy beach towels also purchase suntan lotion. 

Affinity Card
A credit card issued in conjunction with an organisation or collective group; for example, profession, alumni, retired persons association. The card issuer often pays the organisation a royalty. 

Affinity Matrix
A cross tab showing cross- buying patterns by customers who did or did not buy products A, B, C and D. 

Affluents
Households with a disposable income that is greater than 30% of the cost of living plus taxes. 

After Acquired Clause
A contractual clause in a mortgage agreement stating that any additional mortgageable property attained by the borrower after the mortgage is signed will be regarded as additional security for the obligation referenced in the original mortgage. 

Age
The current number of fully elapsed years of a person’s lifetime, from the date of the person’s birth. 

Agent
The person who handles incoming or outgoing calls. Also referred to as a customer service representative (CSR), telephone sales or telephone service representative (TSR), rep, associate, consultant, engineer, operator, technician, account executive, team 

Agent Group
A collection of Agents that share a common set of skills, such as being able to handle customer complaints. Also called split, gate, or skills group. 

Agent Out Call
An outbound call placed by an agent. 

Agent Status
The mode an agent is in - Talk Time, After-Call Work, Unavailable, etc. 

Aggregate
The process of taking all units as a whole, the sum or total. 

Aggregate Data
Data that is the result of applying a process to combine data elements. Data that is taken collectively or in a summary format. 

Aging Schedule
A table of accounts receivable broken down into age categories (such as 0-30 days, 30-60 days, and 60-90 days) and used to determine if customer payments are keeping close to schedule. 

AHT
Acronym for Average Handle Time. The sum of average talk time and average after-call work for a specified time period. 

AI
Acronym for Artificial Intelligence. Software designed to imitate or perform functions that are normally associated with human intellectual abilities. 

Algorithm
A process of computation involving a sequential series of steps. 

All Trunks Busy (ATB)
A scenario where all trunks are busy in a specific trunk group. Generally, reports indicate how many times all trunks were busy, and how much total time all trunks were busy. What they don’t reveal is how many callers received the engaged signal when all 

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
An accounting reserve setting aside the equivalent value of expected losses that arise from credit defaults. 

Altered Card
A card on which the original embossed or encoded information has been altered for fraudulent purposes. 

Alternative Hypothesis
A statement suggesting that a different effect is present. The alternative hypothesis is adopted when the null hypothesis has been disproved. 

American Express
A Travel & Entertainment card issuer. 

Amortisation
The repayment of debt according to a schedule over a specified time period. 

Amount
The original loan amount for instalment accounts, credit limit, or high balance for revolving accounts. 

Analogue Line
Standard telephone service is delivered over analogue lines. Modern improved service, (often used for data lines), comes over digital telephone lines in which all the sounds are converted into binary (1's and 0's). Also see Digital Line. 

Analysis
The study of the relationships between facts, in order to determine patterns. 

Analysis of Covariance
Abbreviated ANCOVA. This is an analysis of variance procedure in which the effects of one or more metric-scaled extraneous variables (covariates) are removed from the dependent variable data prior to conducting an analysis of variance or ANOVA. 

Analysis of Variance
Abbreviated ANOVA. This is a statistical technique for examining the differences among means for two or more populations. 

Analytical Model
A structure and process for analysing a data set. For example, a decision tree is a model for the classification of a data set. 

Analytics
The process and results of an analysis. 

Anchor Label
A label used to define an extremity of a measurement scale. 

ANCOVA
Abbreviation for Analysis of Covariance. . This is an analysis of variance procedure in which the effects of one or more metric-scaled extraneous variables (covariates) are removed from the dependent variable data prior to conducting an analysis of varian 

Angels
Private individuals with capital to invest in business enterprises. 

ANI
The Automatic Number Identification is a system that can identify the number of the person calling you on the telephone. This can also be linked to a database to find the callers name and address. 

Announcement
A recorded verbal message played to callers. 

Annual Fee
A fee charged on an annual basis for the customer’s use of a credit product. Most commonly associated with credit cards. 

Annual Fee Waiver
The process of waiving or decreasing the annual fee charged on a credit product. 

Annual Percentage Rate (APR)
The rate of interest charged by a creditor on an annual basis. The APR helps borrowers compare the cost of alternative loans. 

Annuities
A stream of annual payments of fixed amount for a defined period of time. 

Anomalous Data
Data taking on unexpected values that result either from errors (for example, data entry errors) or from unusual events. Anomalous data should be examined carefully because it may carry important information. 

Anonymity
The process of concealing identity. 

Anonymous FTP
The ability to access a remote computer system on which one does not have an account, via the Internet’s File Transfer Protocol (FTP). Users have restricted access rights with anonymous FTP and usually can only list, view, or copy files to or from a publi 

ANOVA
Abbreviation for Analysis of Variance. This is a statistical technique for examining the differences among means for two or more populations. 

Answer Call
When referring to an agent group, a call counted as answered when it reaches an agent. 

Anti-Collision
A feature commonly used in contactless card systems to prevent conflicts between different signals competing for attention at the same time. 

API
Application Programming Interface. A set of software functions which facilitates communication between applications and other kinds of programs, services, or devices. 

Appended Data
The process whereby a customer file has data appended to it, (such as age, income, home value), from an external data file. Also see Overlays. 

Applet
A computer program, written in Java, that you can download using a Web browser. Applets obey special rules that make it difficult for them to damage your computer. 

Applicant
Any person who requests or who has received a credit from a creditor, including any person who is or may become contractually liable for an extension of credit. The term includes guarantors, sureties, endorsers, and similar parties. 

Application
An oral or written request for credit that is made in accordance with procedures established by a creditor for the type of credit requested; the term does not include the use of an account or line of credit to obtain an amount of credit that is within a p 

Application Data
The information provided by the applicant on the application form. 

Application Fee
A fee charged by the lender or broker for the processing of a loan application. 

Application Processing
The operational function dedicated to the timely processing of new applications in accordance with company lending policies. 

Application Programming Interface
Abbreviated as API. A set of software functions which facilitates communication between applications and other kinds of programs, services, or devices. 

Application Score
The score calculated on just the application data. This does not include any external data, such as credit bureau information. 

Application Time Data
The information that is available to the credit grantor at the time an application is made. This can include the application form, credit bureau information, merchandise details and any other internal or external data sources. 

Application Window
The timeframe during which applications are taken for a development sample. 

Applications Processing System
A computer system that automates the applications processing process. It can include a scoring algorithm, validation checks, policy rules and on-line credit bureau checks. It may be run on a mainframe or on personal computers, either singly or networked. 

Appraisal Fee
The charge for estimating the value of property offered as security. 

Approval Rate
The proportion of an organisation’s through the door population who are accepted when applying for credit facilities. 

APR
Abbreviation for Annual Percentage Rate. The rate of interest charged by a creditor on an annual basis. The APR helps borrowers compare the cost of alternative loans. 

APR
Absolute Priority Rule referring to the order of payment used in many bankruptcy litigation systems. Typically, major creditors are fully compensated before minor creditors receive anything, and minor creditors are fully compensated before shareholders re 

Arbitrage
The process of buying and selling similar securities or shares in different markets to take advantage of the differences in value. 

Architecture
The basic design of a system. Determines how the components work together, systems capacity, upgrade ability, and the ability to integrate with other systems. 

Archive Data
Credit Bureau profile records stored to tape at quarterly intervals. 

Area Sampling
A form of cluster sampling where geographical areas make up the clusters. Also see Clustering. 

Arithmetic Average
The arithmetic average of a population or a sample of observations. Also known as the Mean. 

ARPAnet
The original ancestor of the Internet, funded by the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) of the United States Department of Defence. 

Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Software designed to imitate or perform functions that are normally associated with human intellectual abilities. 

Ascending Cumulative Statistics
A score table indicating what percentage of the applications can be expected to score that score or less. 

ASCII
American Standard format for data storage on magnetic media (tape or disk). 

Asset Swap
A transaction where the right of ownership to an asset is transferred from one entity to another. As an example, a personal endowment policy can be assigned to a bank in return for a personal loan. 

Assets
Items of commercial value. Assets can be either tangible or intangible, but must always represent a value to the owner. 

Assignment
The name given for any method of inferring the behaviour of rejected applications. 

Association
The relationship between two or more categorical variables in a cross-tabulation, i.e. does knowledge of the value of one variable offer any insight into the distribution of the offers. 

Association Rule
A data mining term generally used in the context of a database of transactions, where the rules represent associations between data items. The presence of one set of items in a transaction implies the presence of other items with some specified degree of 

Association Technique
A projective technique where participants are presented with stimulus material and asked to respond with the first thought or impulse that comes to mind. 

Associative Model
A model that associates one or more phenomena with the phenomenon that is being predicted. 

ATB
Abbreviation for All Trunks Busy. When all trunks are busy in a specific trunk group. Generally, reports indicate how many times all trunks were busy, and how much total time all trunks were busy. What they don’t reveal is how many callers received the en 

ATM
Acronym for ‘Automated Teller Machine’. An unattended terminal that has electronic capability, accepts PINs and disburses currency. Also see Electronic Banking. 

Atomistic Test
A test aiming to assess participant reaction to individual elements of a product or concept. This contrasts to holistic testing which looks at a product or concept as a whole. 

Attachment of Property
Where a warrant of execution is issued against movable or immovable property pursuant to the granting of judgment. A Sheriff may proceed to attach and remove certain property, in satisfaction of the judgment debt, with a view to selling such property in e 

Attorney
Another term for lawyer. A person trained in legal matters and certified to provide legal advice or to represent others in a court of law. 

Attribute
A column in a database that contains the same kind of information for each record. For example, an Age field contains the age of each person in the database. An attribute can be either independent or dependent. Also known as Field and Variable. 

Attribute Analysis
A technique for the development of a list of characteristics. 

Attribute Strength
The measure of the ability of an individual scorecard attribute to discriminate between any two outcomes, usually good and bad. 

Attrition Models
Scoring models designed to predict account closure or cessation. 

Attrition Rate
The opposite of Retention Rate. The percentage of customers this year who are no longer buying next year. Also see Churn. 

Audiotex
A voice processing capability that enables callers to automatically access pre-recorded announcements. 

Audit Trail
A trail which refers to features and measures allowing for processing traceability for controlling purposes. 

Augmentation
Any process that augments the known Good and Bad accounts in a sample by the Inferred Good and Bad accounts from the applications that were rejected. Also known as Reject Inference. 

Authentication
The process of verifying the identity of a person or process within the guidelines of a specific security policy. A fundamental part of many Cryptography systems. 

Authorisation Approval Card
The numerical code designated by the issuer, given to a sales transaction as verification that the sale has been authorised. 

Authorisation Centre
A department that electronically communicates a merchant's request for authorisation on credit card transactions to the cardholder's bank and transmits such authorisation to the merchant via electronic equipment or by voice authorisation. 

Authorisations
The process whereby the credit card issuer accepts, refers or declines, a cardholder transaction. 

Auto Greeting
Agent’s pre-recorded greeting that plays automatically when a call arrives. 

Auto Representment
Chargebacks that were automatically resolved by the bank on the merchant's behalf without their knowledge or intervention. Chargebacks are generally caused by credit not issued and transaction not being authorized. 

Auto Sexing
A computer process for finding the sex and appending titles, (e.g. Mr., Ms., Mrs., Dr., Prof.) to a file of names. 

Automated Attendant
A voice processing capability that automates the attendant function. The system prompts callers to respond to choices (e.g., press one for this, two for that) and then coordinates with the ACD to send callers to specific destinations. This function can re 

Automated Bill Payment
The crediting of funds from a consumer's account to a company's account to facilitate the payment of a consumer's bill or obligation. 

Automated Call Handling 
The process whereby incoming calls are answered and handled by a pre-recorded script, using specialist computer and telecoms equipment. Also see ACH. 

Automated Clearing House
Abbreviated as ACH. A regional organisation used by member banks to electronically transfer funds between members. Also see Internet Cheque Acceptance or Direct Payment. 

Automated Teller Machine (ATM)
An unattended terminal that has electronic capability, accepts PINs and disburses currency. See Electronic Banking. 

Automatic Call Distributor
This is used in call centres for routing calls to available agents, holding overflow calls, giving and taking messages and generating reports. Also see ACD and Dynamic Answer. 

Automatic Number Identification
A system that identifies the telephone number of the person calling you. Also see ANI. 

Automatic Variable
A variable that is automatically defined by htmSQL and which contains htmSQL processing information. 

Auxiliary Work State
An agent work state that is typically not associated with handling telephone calls. When agents are in auxiliary mode, they will not receive inbound calls. 

Available Credit
The monetary amount of a person’s unused available credit. In bankcards, it is the difference between the average outstanding balance and the cardholder’s pre-approved credit limit. 

Available State
Agents who are signed on to the ACD and waiting for calls to arrive. 

Available Time
The total time that an agent or agent group is waiting for calls to arrive, for a given time period. 

Average
The general term used to represent or summarise the relevant features of a set of values. The arithmetic mean is often used as a measure of average, but the median and the mode can also be used to summarise a set of values. 

Average Daily Balance
A method of computing the figure on which the finance charge for credit card financing will be based. The account balances for each day in the billing period are totalled and divided by the number of days in the period. 

Average Handle Time (AHT)
The sum of average talk time and average after-call work for a specified time period. 

Average Shortfall
An alternative way of describing the magnitude of the "tail" (or an extreme value level) of a probability distribution. For example, rather than stating what level of loss could occur with 1% likelihood. A statement of average shortfall would be the ave 

Average Ticket
The average size of a merchant bankcard transaction. This is generally used in pricing decisions and calculations. 

Average Time to Abandonment
The average time that callers wait in a queue before abandoning. The calculation considers only calls that are abandoned. 

AVS
Acronym for Address Verification Service. A service provided through merchant services in which the merchant verifies the cardholder's address. Primarily used by mail/telephone order merchants to combat fraud. It is not a guarantee that a transaction is v 

Awareness
In marketing terms, a measure of the knowledge a person has about an object or idea. There two main measures of awareness are spontaneous (or unaided) and prompted (or aided) awareness. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

B

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

B2B
Internet term. A business or the process of selling to businesses. 

B2B2C
Internet term. A business or the process of selling to both businesses and consumers. 

B2C
Internet term. A business or the process of selling to consumers. 

Baby Boomers
Nickname for people born between 1946 and 1964. 

Back End
The activities necessary to complete a direct response transaction once an order has been received and/or the measurement of a buyer's performance after they have ordered the first item in a series of offerings. 

Backdoor Listing 
A scenario where a company is listed on the stock exchange after acquiring an already listed company and injecting new activities into it. 

Bad Credit 
A term used to describe a poor credit rating. Common practices that can damage a credit rating include making late payments, skipping payments, exceeding card limits or declaring bankruptcy. "Bad Credit" can result in being denied credit. 

Bad Rate
The percentage of accounts performing in an unsatisfactory manner, as determined by the good/bad definition used at the time the scorecard was developed. 

Bads
Accounts that the credit grantor wishes they had not accepted. See Unsatisfactory Accounts. 

Balance
The amount of funds outstanding on an account. 

Balance At Risk (BAR)
The value that is calculated by multiplying the accounts balance by the probability that it will go bad. 

Balance Sheet
The balance sheet is a ‘snapshot’ of the financial situation of a company at a specific point in time. The balance sheet allows for external evaluation of company performance and is usually a compliance requirement if the company is to operate legally. 

Balance Surfer
A customer that continually moves their debt between issuers, to take advantage of introductory and special balance transfer offers. 

Balance to Limit
The ratio of original loan amount or high credit limit to the outstanding balance. 

Balance Transfer
An offer by credit grantors to transfer a customer’s debt from a competing organisation to their own, often at a more favourable interest rate. 

Balloon Note Financing
Allows a final loan payment substantially larger than regular, periodic payments. See Balloon Payment. 

Balloon Payment
A final lump-sum payment that includes remaining unpaid principal. The extra payment extinguishes the debt. See Balloon Note Financing. 

Banana Problem
Not knowing where or when to bring the design of a web site to a close, possibly due to creeping "featuritis" or an overabundance of features. The phrase comes from the story of the little girl who said: "I know how to spell 'banana', but I don't know whe 

Bank
An establishment for (a) the custody, loan, exchange, or issue of money; (b) the extension of credit; and/or (c) facilitating the transmission of funds. 

Bank for International Settlements
Abbreviated BIS. This is an organisation comprised mainly of central banking institutions, BIS concerns itself with international payments. See also Central Bank. 

Bank Identification Number (BIN)
A six-digit number assigned by VISA and used to identify member banks or card processors for authorisation, clearing or settlement processing. 

Bank Identifier Code
Also known as BIC. 

Bank Routing Number
The first nine digits that appear across the bottom of a personal cheque. These numbers identify the financial institution. 

Bank Run or Bank Panic
A series of unexpected cash withdrawals caused by a sudden decline in depositor confidence or fear of bank closure by the chartering agency, i.e. many depositors withdraw cash almost simultaneously. 

Bankcard
A credit card, issued by a bank, credit union, and/or savings institutions, that is tied to a pre-approved line of credit, or a debit card, drawing funds from the holder’s current account or savings account. 

Bankcard Association
A group of institutions formed for the purpose of sponsoring a bankcard program, using a common processing and administrative centre. 

Bankruptcy
The legal process by which a consumer or business declares insolvency. See Chapter 11. 

Bankwire Transfer
Transfer of funds to any bank within the US Federal Reserve System. 

BAR
Acronym for Balance At Risk. The value that is calculated by multiplying the accounts balance by the probability that it will go bad. 

Bar Chart
A graph where data is displayed in the form of bars which are arranged either vertically or horizontally. 

Base Line
A measurement against which another measurement can be compared. See also Bench Marking. 

Base Staff
Also called Seated Agents. The minimum number of agents required to achieve service level and response time objectives for a given period of time. Seated agent calculations assume that agents will be in their seats for the entire period of time. Therefore 

Basel Accord 
Agreement concluded among country representatives in 1988 in Switzerland to develop standardised risk-based capital requirements for banks across countries. 

Basic Custody
A financial term; refers to the safekeeping and administration of securities, shares and financial instruments on behalf of others. See Custodial. 

Basic Rate Interface (BRI)
One of two basic levels of ISDN service. A BRI line provides two bearer channels for voice and data and one channel for signalling (commonly expressed as 2B+D). Integrated Services Digital Network. 

Batch
The accumulation of captured transactions waiting to be settled. Multiple batches may be settled throughout the day. 

Batch Authorisation Transaction System (BATS)
A system designed to allow certain merchants for example, mail order merchants to batch process authorisations on their own time schedules. 

Batch Header Ticket
The identifying form used by the electronic submission merchant to indicate a batch of sales or credit slips. This is usually a daily batch. 

Batch Mode
Updating information as a group transaction, rather than individually. For example, if a company has received 10,000 replies to a direct mailing, it can update the master file with these replies in one batch, typically run overnight. This is the fastest a 

Batch Processing
A type of data processing and data communications transmission in which related transactions are grouped together and transmitted for processing, usually by the same computer and under the same application. 

BATS
Abbreviation for Batch Authorisation Transaction System. 

Baud
The number of electrical symbols per second which a modem is able to send by way of a phone line. 

Bayes’ Theorem
Thomas Bayes was an 18th century English clergyman with an express interest in mathematics. The theory is essentially a technique to estimate the conditional probability of a cause, given that a particular event has occurred. 

Bayesian Belief Networks
A system that represents cause and effect relationships among variables, along with probabilities that each cause variable will influence each effect variable. It is an alternative to fuzzy expert systems for combining expert knowledge with inferences der 

Bayesian Networks
A system that represents cause and effect relationships among variables, along with probabilities that each cause variable will influence each effect variable. It is an alternative to fuzzy expert systems for combining expert knowledge with inferences der 

BBS
A Bulletin Board System is an electronic message system that you dial up directly on your computer to read and post messages or pull off files. 

Bear
An investor who sells shares in the hopes of buying them back at a lower price. 

Bear Market 
Market in which prices are generally declining and the underlying sentiment reinforces the general decline. 

Behaviour Scoring
A scoring system used to estimate the probability that an existing account will go bad. It is developed using account behaviour data, such as payment and purchase activity and is typically calculated on a monthly basis. Also known as Performance Scoring. 

Bell Curve
The colloquial term for a normal distribution, which is the function that represents the distribution of many random variables as a symmetrical bell-shaped graph. Also known as Normal Distribution or Gaussian Distribution. 

Benchmark
A term referred to as a standardised task to test the capabilities of devices against each other. In quality terms, benchmarking involves comparing products, services and processes with those of other organisations, to identify new ideas and improvement o 

Benchmarking
The process of comparing measurements or indexes relative to on another, allowing the identification of ‘best practice’ methods and measurements. 

Benchmarking Consortium
An industry group that seeks to set benchmarks of best practice or performance for a given industry or sector. 

Beneficiary
The person receiving the benefits from the terms of a trust, a pension or provident fund, other deferred income plan, or an insurance policy. 

Best in Class
A benchmarking term to identify organisations that outperform all others in a specified category. 

Best Linear Unbiased Estimator (BLUE)
This is an estimator that has expected parameters equal to the underlying model parameters and as such has minimum variance. 

Beta Co-efficient
The score generated out of a regression model for each attribute. 

Bias
An unexpected or hidden influence in a dataset, which will cause atypical results when the data is analysed. 

Bilateral Netting
An agreement between two parties in which they exchange only the difference in their obligations to each other. 

Bill Consolidator
A bill service provider (BSP) who consolidates bills from other BSPs (or other billers) and delivers them for presentment to the customer service provider. Also referred to as a Consolidator. 

Bill of Exchange
Written order by which one party instructs another party to pay a specified sum to a third party. 

Bill Payment Provider (BPP)
An agent, usually a financial institution, of the biller that originates and accepts payments on behalf of the biller. 

Bill Payment Service Provider (BPSP)
A financial institution or non-financial entity acting as an intermediary between the biller and consumer for the exchange of electronic bill payment information. 

Bill Service Provider (BSP)
An agent of the biller that provides an electronic bill presentment and payment service for the biller. 

Billback
A method of recovering or reducing interchange fees for transactions which clear differently to as originally planned. The processing company passes through the charges to the merchant. 

Biller
A company or an organisation that sends a bill or statement to a consumer. This is usually a request for payment for a product or service. 

BIN
Acronym for Bank Identification Number. A six-digit number assigned by VISA and used to identify member banks or card processors for authorisation, clearing or settlement processing. Also see Chargeback Reference Number. 

Binary Outcome
The situation where the dependent variable has only two values, such as good or bad, response or no response. See Dichotomous Outcome. 

Biometrics 
Identification and authentication techniques based on the physical characteristics of a person such as fingerprints, hand geometry, retina scan or voice print. 

BIS
Abbreviation for Bank for International Settlements. This is an organisation comprised mainly of central banking institutions, BIS concerns itself with international payments. See also Central Bank. 

BISTRO
Acronym for Broad Index Secured Trust Offering. This is a vehicle for transferring a significant level of diverse credit risk into a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV). 

Bit
If a byte is like an atom in computer language, a bit is like an electron. A bit is either on or off. It is either a 1 or a 0. Eight bits make up one byte. See Byte. 

Bivariate Analysis
Any form of analysis in which only two variables are considered. 

Blank Cheque
A cheque that does not have a value amount written on it. 

Blanket 
A secured loan that gives the lender a lien against all the borrower's inventories. 

Blanket Mortgage 
A mortgage that covers at least two pieces of real estate as collateral for the same mortgage. 

Block
The smallest reported unit in the 1990 U.S. Census. There are c. 14 households in a block. 

Block Code
A code used by credit grantors to identify specific accounts and typically block them from taking additional credit. 

Block Group
The smallest reported unit in the 1980 U. S. Census. There are about 340 households in a Block Group. 

Blockage
Callers blocked from entering a queue. 

BLUE
Acronym for Best Linear Unbiased Estimator. This is an estimator that has expected parameters equal to the underlying model parameters and as such has minimum variance. 

Bluetooth 
A technology that allows an array of devices to communicate over short-distance wireless connections. This technology applies to PCs on a local area network as well as cell phones, personal digital assistants and even wristwatches. 

Boilerplate
Standard terms and conditions, e.g. in a debt contract. 

Bond
An interest-bearing security legally obligating the issuing company or government to repay the principal loan amount to the bond investor at a specified future date. 

Bond Market 
Primary or secondary market for government municipal or corporate debt securities. 

Bond Rating
An evaluation of the possible risk of credit losses due to a bond issuer default, based largely on the bond issuer’s financial condition and profit potential. 

Bonus Share 
Payment of a corporate dividend in the form of stocks rather than cash. 

Boosting
Boosting is a general class of technologies for improving the performance of an existing prediction technology. Boosting works by sequentially applying a classification algorithm to re-weighted versions of the training sample. Boosting works particularly 

Bootstrap Sample
Bootstrap samples are used in many modelling technologies to obtain reliable prediction estimates, usually by averaging the estimates across the samples, especially in cases where only small samples are available. 

Borrower
A person who receives funds in the form of a loan with the obligation to repay the loan in full. 

Bounce Back
The practice of sending a second identical or similar catalogue back to someone who has just ordered an item from the original catalogue. 

Bounce E-mail
Bounce e-mail or bounce mail is electronic mail that is returned to the sender because it cannot be delivered for some reason. There are two kinds of Bounce e-mail: Hard Bounce and Soft Bounce. 

Bozos
Customers or accounts that are below an organisation’s break-even point and so are unprofitable. 

BPP
Abbreviation for Bill Payment Provider. An agent (usually a financial institution) of the biller that originates and accepts payments on behalf of the biller. 

BPSP
Abbreviation for Bill Payment Service Provider. A financial institution or non-financial entity acting as an intermediary between the biller and consumer for the exchange of electronic bill payment information. 

Branch of the Future
A term to describe a one-stop Banking facility where front line agents can handle any type of customer query. This would eliminate the need for customers to move between several queues in resolving their different queries. 

Brand Managers
Most packaged goods companies organise themselves by brand. The brand manager is responsible for advertising, marketing and sales of the product. 

Break-even Odds
The ratio of the number of Good accounts needed to pay for the loss generated by one Bad account. This assumes that the average profit from a Good account and the average loss from a Bad account are known. 

BRI
Abbreviation for Basic Rate Interface. A BRI line provides two bearer channels for voice and data and one channel for signalling (commonly expressed as 2B+D). See Primary Rate Interface (PRI) and Integrated Services Digital Network. 

Bridging Loan 
Short-term loan to provide temporary financing until more permanent financing is found. 

Broad Index Secured Trust Offering
Also known as BISTRO. This is a vehicle for transferring a significant level of diverse credit risk into a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV). 

Broker
In financial terms, this is a trading party who operates on the stock market either for itself or on behalf of brokerage clients. 

Brokerage Commission
The commission paid by a list owner to a broker for handling the rental of a marketing list. 

Browser
Short for Web Browser, the tool that allows users to surf the Web. The popular Web browsers include Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer. 

BS
Acronym for Behaviour Score. A scoring system used to estimate the probability that an existing account will go bad. It is developed using account behaviour data, such as payment and purchase activity and is typically calculated on a monthly basis. Also k 

BSP
Abbreviation for Bill Service Provider. An agent of the biller that provides an electronic bill presentment and payment service for the biller. 

Budget Card
Budget cards are similar to credit cards, except for the credit limit. A set payment monthly amount payable by debit order is agreed is agreed. The credit limit is a multiple of the pre-set amount agreed. 

Bugs
Errors that occur in software. These are caused by the inability of programmers to predict all possible ways that the code in their programs will be used to process data. 

Bull
An investor buying shares in the hopes of making a profit from future rising prices. 

Bull Market 
Rising market, or a market in which further price increases are expected, due to strong demand. 

Bulldog Bond 
Foreign bond issue made in London. 

Bullet Payment 
A single final payment. 

Bulletin Board System (BBS)
An electronic message system that you dial up directly on your computer to read and post messages or pull off files. 

Bundle
All written documentation relevant to the court case. 

Bureau Enquiry
A history of an enquiry made upon your name, which is kept on your credit profile for a period of time, together with the company’s name that made the enquiry i.e. history of whom you sought credit from. 

Bureaux
More than one Bureau is known as Bureaux (plural). Credit reference agencies are also known as credit bureaux or simply ‘the bureaux’. 

Business Card
A bankcard issued to companies for use by company employees. The liability for abuse of the card typically rests with the company, not with the employee. 

Business Credit
Extensions of credit primarily for business or commercial purposes. 

Business Cycle
The ups and downs of the economy that follow a cyclical pattern over the course of time. 

Business Data Layer
Any derived data layer that is the result of an aggregation of framework data layers or specific data layers that is used to meet specific business needs. 

Business Day
Also known as market day. Financial terms referring to the days that Stock Exchanges are open for business. This excludes Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays. 

Business Intelligence
Business Intelligence includes any technology that lets users independently access and analyse corporate data, and that delivers valuable information for timely, informed decision-making. 

Busted Convertible 
Convertibles that trade like fixed-income investments because the market price of the common stock they convert to has fallen so low as to render the conversion feature valueless. 

Buyout 
Purchase of at least a controlling percentage of a company's stock to take over its assets and operations. 

Byte
A unit of computer memory. One letter or number is a byte. A byte is usually composed of eight bits. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
C

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

C-commerce
Collaborative commerce. 

CAB
Abbreviation for Citizens Advice Bureau. 

CAIS
A UK proprietary loan payment history system. 

Calibration
The method for ensuring that all scorecards being used work on the same scale, even if the set of circumstances change. 

Call Abandonment
This refers to people, who when placed on hold at an incoming call centre, elect to hang up (‘abandon’) the call. Call centres monitor the ‘abandonment rate’ very closely, as it is a predictive measure of their efficiency. See Abandoned Call or Abandon Ra 

Call Blending
Combining traditionally separate inbound and outbound agent groups into one group of agents responsible for handling both inbound and outbound mode and outbound contacts. A system that is capable of call blending automatically puts agents who are making o 

Call by Call Routing
The process of routing each call to the optimum destination according to real-time conditions. See Percent Allocation. 

Call Centre
An umbrella term that generally refers to reservations centres, help desks, information lines or customer service centres, regardless of how they are organised or what types of transactions they handle. Many are challenging the term, because calls are jus 

Call Control Variables
The set of criteria the ACD uses to process calls. Examples including routing criteria overflow parameters, recorded announcements and timing thresholds. See ACD. 

Call Detail Recording
Data on each call, captured by the ACD. This can include the trunk used, time in queue, call duration, agent who handled the call, number dialled (for outgoing) and other information. See Historical Reports. 

Call Tracking
Keeping track of what happened to customer calls. 

Caller Entered Digits (CED)
Digits which callers enter using their telephone. 

Caller Line Identification
The ability at network level to identify the source of a call before deciding whether to accept it. The call recipient must be based in a digital exchange, but not all network operators provide this facility at present. Also known as CLI. 

Can’t Pays
Debtors who have defaulted on payments due to their financial inability rather than any intent not to pay. 

Cancellation Number
A number provided by a hotel/motel to verify a cardholder's notification to cancel a guaranteed reservation or advance resort deposit. 

Capacity
One of the Three C’s of Credit: Character, Capacity and Collateral. The capacity of the applicant to financially service the debt generated by the additional credit applied for. 

Capital Adequacy Ratio
The ratio of the total capital divided by risk-weighted assets and risk-weighted off-balance sheet items. Banks are expected to meet a minimum capital ratio requirement predetermined by the relevant banking authority. 

Capital Gain/Loss
A capital gain is the profit made when a capital asset is sold for more than the original cost. A capital loss arises when the asset is sold for less than the original cost. 

Capital Gains Tax
A tax due on profits realised from buying security or stock at one price and selling it at another. 

Capital Market
Market for loanable funds that covers medium and long term finance. 

Capital Sum
The initial sum of money invested or deposited, before interest earned. 

Capitalisation
Also known as Market Capitalisation. This is the total value of a company, as defined by stock market value. The value is arrived at by multiplying the company share price by the number of shares in issue. 

Capture
Converting the authorisation amount into a billable transaction record within a batch. Transactions cannot be captured unless previously authorised and the goods or services have been shipped or transmitted to the consumer. 

Capture Date
The date on which a transaction is processed by an acquirer. 

Card Balance Protection (CBP)
This is a form of life assurance, whereby the credit grantor or an associated company insures the customer for the payment of their outstanding debt, in the event that the customer dies. 

Card Base
A population of cardholders, especially in the context of a single-card family. 

Card Issuer
1) The financial institution or retailer that authorises the issuance of a card to a consumer or another organisation, and is liable for the use of the card. The issuer retains full authority over the use of the card by the person to whom the card is issu 

Card Not Present Transaction
A transaction where the customer is not present to sign for the purchase e.g. Internet, telephone and mail order. 

Card Recovery Bulletin
A directory of blocked account numbers intended for distribution to merchants. 

Card Verification Code (CVC)
A unique value calculated from the data encoded on the magnetic stripe of a MasterCard card, validating card information during the authorisation process. 

Card Verification Value (CVV)
A unique check value encoded on the magnetic stripe of a credit card to validate card information during the authorisation process. The card verification value is calculated from the data encoded on the magnetic stripe using a secure cryptographic process 

Cardholder
An individual to whom a card is issued, or who is authorised to use that card. 

Cardholder Bank
The bank that has issued a bankcard to an individual. The term is frequently used in conjunction with interchange arrangement to identify the card-issuing bank. 

Cardinality
The number of data occurrences permitted on either side of a data reduction. In the common data architecture, cardinality is documented with data integrity, not with the data structure. 

Carrier
A company that provides telecommunications circuits. Carriers include both local telephone companies and long distance providers. 

CART
Acronym for Classification and Regression Trees. A decision tree technique that can be used for predictive classification of a data set, or prediction of a continuous value. It provides a set of rules that can be applied to a new (unclassified) data set t 

Carte Blanche
A Travel & Entertainment card issuer. 

Cascading Style Sheet (CSS)
A set of specifications that control how HTML elements are displayed in a Web browser. CSS can be used to to specify fonts, sizes, and colours of the text in HTML documents. Cascading style sheets make it easier for authors of HTML documents to maintain a 

Case
Refers to the information contained in the database that comprises an entry for each field in the database. For example, an employee database contains a record for each employee. Also known as Observation, Record, and Row. 

Cash Advances
The use a card to obtain cash is achieved either by way of an ATM withdrawal or over the counter in a bank. There is usually a charge levied based on a percentage of the cash amount withdrawn. 

Cash Bank
A purchase for more than the amount of goods or services with the cardholder receiving the difference in cash. 

Cash Flow
Cash generated or used during the operations of an organisation. 

Cash-out Refinancing Loan
A loan that refinances a prior mortgage and that provides additional cash to the borrower. 

Cashback
A term primarily applied in the UK market. Cashback transactions are usually facilitated by supermarkets. The checkout assistant adds the cash you have asked for (up to a maximum of £50) to the shopping bill and disburses the cash out of the till. 

Categorical
Occurs when the values of a variable are categories that are not necessarily ordered. For example, occupation is a categorical variable. Also known as Discrete, Classification, or Nominal variables. 

Categorical Fields
Fields that contain different categories of field values. Also known as Discrete Fields. 

Categorical Levels of Data Classification
Abstract levels of data classification above the working level that provides a broader perspective of data. There are several types of categorical levels, including Data Classification Schemes, Data Themes, Data Segments and Data Clusters. 

Causal Networks
A system that represents cause and effect relationships among variables, along with probabilities that each cause variable will influence each effect variable. It is an alternative to fuzzy expert systems for combining expert knowledge with inferences der 

CBP
Acronym for Card Balance Protection. This is a form of life assurance, whereby the credit grantor or an associated company insures the customer for the payment of their outstanding debt, in the event that the customer dies. 

CD
1) A banking term for certificate of deposit. 2) A compact disk, a form of digitised data storage. (CD-ROM) 

CED
Acronym for Caller Entered Digits. The digits callers enter when using their telephone. 

Ceiling
The highest price, interest rate, or other numerical factor allowable in a financial transaction. 

Cell Code
After completing RFM analysis, every customer is assigned a Cell Code, which includes the recency, frequency and monetary level of purchases. The cell code is often used in mailing campaigns. See RFM value. 

CEMEA
Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa. 

Central Bank
The major regulatory bank for national monetary systems. Central banks are normally government controlled. Central banking roles may include the control of credit, supervision of commercial banks, management of exchange reserves and manipulation of the va 

Central Office (CO)
This can refer to either a telephone company switching centre or the type of telephone company switching centre. The local central office receives calls from within the local area and either routes them locally or passes them to an inter-exchange carrier 

Central Processing Unit
This is the heart of a mainframe or PC. See CPU. 

Centralised Data Warehouse
A data warehouse implementation in which a single warehouse serves the needs of multiple business units simultaneously with a single data model, which spans the requirements of the multiple business divisions. 

Certificate
Financial term; this is a document otherwise referred to as a physical scrip. It confirms the holder’s ownership of a debt obligation. The certificate is required in the event of settlement and when collecting income accrued. 

Certified Cheque
A cheque guaranteed for payment by the issuing bank. 

Certified Manufacturer
A card manufacturer certified by Visa/MasterCard to produce one or more card products on behalf of an issuer. 

Certified Scrip
The marking of a transfer deed by the transfer secretary of a company showing that the relevant original certificate is in their possession. 

Cession
A means of transferring a right to claim, so that a new creditor is substituted for the original creditor, while the debtor remains the same. In general, the debtor need not consent to the right. 

CFA
Abbreviation for Chartered Financial Analyst. An experienced financial analyst who has passed examinations in economics, financial accounting, portfolio management, security analysis, and standards of conduct given by the institute of Chartered Financial 

CFO
Chief Financial Officer. This position has ultimate control of a company’s budgets. 

CGI
Common Gateway Interface is a programming interface that enables a Web server to communicate with an external program and to pass the results back to a user. See Interface. 

CHAID
Acronym for Chi Square Automatic Interaction Detection. A decision tree technique used for predictive classification of a data set, or prediction of a continuous value. It provides a set of rules that you can apply to a new (unclassified) data set to pred 

Chain
A series of merchant locations which are managed/owned by the same entity. 

Challenger Strategy
A proposed strategy as an alternative to the existing ‘Champion’ strategy. 

Champion Strategy
The existing strategy in use by the credit grantor. 

Champion-Challenger Test
The process of testing the Challenger strategy against the incumbent Champion strategy, using statistically valid testing and control groups of accounts. See Adaptive Control System. 

Change Data Capture
The process of capturing changes made to a production data source. This is typically performed by reading the source log. It consolidates units of work, ensures that data is synchronised with the original source and reduces data volume in a data warehousi 

Channel
A medium for the transmission of information, or an input-output device as part of a mainframe computer. 

Chaos Theory
The mathematical science that studies sensitive dependence on initial conditions in dynamical systems. 

Chapter 11
The chapter in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code that contains the provisions for court-supervised reorganisation of debtor companies. See Bankruptcy and Acts of Insolvency. 

Character
One of the Three C’s of Credit: Character, Capacity and Collateral. This refers to the ‘character’ of the credit applicant. 

Characteristic
A question asked on an application or an item of information on a credit report. For example, Age, Occupation, Marital Status. For behaviour scoring models, the characteristics are generated from payment and purchase information, such as Delinquency Level 

Characteristic Analysis
A comparison of the statistical distribution of counts or percentages of the attributes of characteristics in the current applicant population with those in the sample that was used to develop the original system. 

Characteristic Analysis Report
This report compares each characteristic and the percentages of current applicants that fall into the various attributes with the percentages that fell into these same attributes when the scoring system was developed. 

Characteristic Strength
A measure of a scorecard characteristic’s ability to discriminate between two outcomes, usually good and bad. This is the maximum contribution that the characteristic can make to the scorecard. 

Charge Card
A type of payment card, where the amount due must be paid in full by the cardholder on receipt of the statement. 

Charge Per Transaction
A fee charged on any authorised transaction to cover costs usually associated with delivery of the authorisation. 

Charge-off
A lender’s declaration of a balance as uncollectable bad debt and/or the process of writing off uncollected loans from account receivable books. 

Charge-out System
System that measures the economic capital consumed by incremental credit exposures arising from new transactions, and allocates a proportional charge to risk takers such as traders. 

Chargeback
The reversal of a credit card transaction, whereby the issuer returns the transaction to the acquirer. 

Chargeback Image Processing System (CIPS).
A stand-alone system developed to handle chargeback processing. Also called the Wang. 

Chargeback Period
The number of calendar days (counted from the transaction processing date) during which the issuer has the right to charge the transaction back to the acquirer. The number of days varies according to the type of transaction from 45 to 180 days. 

Chargeback Reason Code
A numerical code which identifies the specific reasons for the chargeback. VISA and MasterCard each have their own chargeback codes. 

Chargeback Reference Number
A 10-digit number assigned to every chargeback, unique (in a 12-month period) for each individual chargeback. The first four digits of the chargeback reference number are the issuer's identification (BIN/ICA) number. 

Charges/Bank Charges
Banks typically charge customers a fee for services rendered. Examples of charges include fees for payments made via cheque, debit orders or cash handling fees. 

Chartered Financial Analyst
An experienced financial analyst who has passed examinations in economics, financial accounting, portfolio management, security analysis, and standards of conduct given by the institute of Chartered Financial Analysts. See CFA. 

Check and List Payment
A paper-based processing method in which the biller is sent a single cheque representing multiple payments accompanied by a list of payments that it represents. 

Cheque
A written order for payment of a certain amount of money. 

Cheque Account
The account used to write cheques or use a debit card against. Also known in the UK and other countries as a Current Account. 

Cheque By Phone
A system that allows consumers to provide their cheque account information to a merchant over the phone and a duplicate cheque (paper draft or electronic cheque) is created for payment. 

Cheque Card
A bankcard that enables the user to purchase goods and services and obtain cash disbursements against his or her asset account. 

Cheque Guarantee
A service provided by a third party vendor who guarantees a customer's payment by cheque for a specified amount. Stipulations require that the merchant follow correct authorisation procedures. 

Cheque Verification
A service provided in which a merchant accesses a national negative file database through their terminal/register to verify or authorise the person has no outstanding bad cheque complaints at any of the member merchants. This is not a guarantee of payment 

Cherry Picking
The practice of manually identifying and selecting the lowest risk applicants or accounts. 

Cheshire Label
This is the most common type of computer label, used in mailing. This plain paper label requires a Cheshire Machine to affix it to mailing materials. 

Chi Square Automatic Interaction Detection (CHAID)
A decision tree technique used for predictive classification of a data set, or prediction of a continuous value. It provides a set of rules that you can apply to a new (unclassified) data set to predict which records will have a given outcome. It segments 

Chi Square Test of Independence
A test measuring the statistical association between two categorical variables. 

Chief Financial Officer.
Also known as a CFO. This position has ultimate control of a company’s budgets. 

Child Node
Used in a decision tree. This is a node that is subordinate to a parent node. This is not the same as an outcome node. See Node and Parent Node. 

Chip cards
Chip cards, also called Smart Cards, are plastic cards which operate with a microchip rather than a magnetic stripe and contain client related information. 

Chips
Also known as Microchips. These are the ‘brains’ powering computer systems with chip processing speeds varying according to age and make. Modern chips are about the size of a human fingernail and hold millions of circuits shrunk to a microscopic level wit 

Chronological Data Layer Aggregation
The aggregation of data layers chronologically, in order to provide a history of changes. 

Churn
The propensity for, and the rate at which, account holders leave one organisation to take up a better offer with a competitor. See Attrition Rate. 

Churning
The practice of customers switching to another supplier based on special discount offers. This term is particularly used in the cellular telephone or credit card industries. 

CIF
Acronym for Customer Information File, which is a consolidation of many different accounts held by a household or individual and it is often used for marketing purposes, by banks and other financial institutions. 

CIFAS
Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance Scheme. A non-competitive, UK industry-wide shared information scheme for identifying fraudulent applications. 

CIPS
Abbreviation for Chargeback Image Processing System. A stand-alone system developed to handle chargeback processing. Also called the Wang. 

Cirrus
Cirrus is a network of cash machines which are part of the MasterCard system. If you have a card with the Cirrus sign on it you can take out cash from ATMs around the world which display both the Cirrus and MasterCard signs. 

Citizens Advice Bureau
Abbreviated as CAB. 

Civil Action
A legal proceeding in the civil courts, in which one party sues for or claims something. For example, money owed from another. 

Claim
A demand that someone owes you money or property. 

Claimant
The party instigating a court action, which is usually the lender or creditor. 

Classification
Where a data set is divided into mutually exclusive groups via a categorical variable, a classification technique attempts to predict which records will fall within each group. For example, a typical classification problem is to divide a database of compa 

Classification And Regression Trees (CART)
A decision tree technique that can be used for predictive classification of a data set, or prediction of a continuous value. It provides a set of rules that can be applied to a new (unclassified) data set to predict which records will have a given outcome 

Classification Tree
A graphical representation of the relationships between a dependent variable and a set of independent variables. Typically, the dependent variable is positioned at the top or left of the tree (root node), while independent variables (nodes) and their rela 

Classing
The practice of grouping the attributes used in the Initial Enumeration, to reduce the total number of attributes and to ensure that the sample count in each one is statistically significant. 

Cleaning Names
A process whereby names and addresses on a customer or prospect list are corrected (addresses standardised, postal codes corrected, spelling and punctuation corrected, duplicates consolidated, etc.) 

Clearing Account
An account at the clearing bank that will receive a member's credit or debit for net settlement. 

Clearing Bank
A bank designated by the member to receive the member's daily net settlement advisement. The clearing bank will also conduct funds transfer activities with the net settlement bank as well as maintain the member's clearing account. This bank may be the mem 

Clearing House
Also known as a clearing corporation. This is an organisation guaranteeing the performance of both parties to a specific financial contract, as well as maintaining the records of both parties to the transaction. In return the house collects a margin on th 

Clearing System
The system that collects, processes and transmits the information allowing a transaction to be settled. 

CLI
Acronym for Call Line Identification, which is the ability at network level to identify the source of a call before deciding whether to accept it. The call recipient must be based in a digital exchange, but not all network operators provide this facility 

Click Rate
The click rate is the percentage of advertisement views that result in a clickthrough. Click rates for high-repeat, branding banners vary from 0.15 to 1% but diminish with repeated exposure. Compelling content can increase this up to 5%. 

ClickStream
A record of a user’s path whilst navigating through a Web site. This information can help an organisation understand how visitors are using their site and which pages are getting the most use. 

Clickthrough
The result of a visitor clicking on an advertisement/message linked to another Web site. 

Client Reference Number
An eight-digit number supplied by the establishment for Electronic Draft Capture, Electronic Cash Register. 

Client/Server Architecture
A network of computers that share capabilities and devices. 

Clipboard
The storage location where copied data elements are saved. 

Closed
An account that is no longer open or available for business transactions. 

Closed System
A kind of payment card system in which one organisation both issues cards and acquires merchants. American Express, Diners Club, and Discover are examples of closed systems. 

Closed-end Credit
Generally, any loan or credit sale agreement in which the amounts advanced, plus any finance charges, is expected to be repaid in full over a definite time. Most real estate and automobile loans are closed- end agreements. 

Closed-loop Decision Support System
Closed-loop systems interpret query results and automatically execute transactions such as changing product prices or shifting product inventory. A closed-loop decision support systems should allow the analyst to create transactions while interactively vi 

Cluster Models
Cluster models resulting from cluster analysis have traditionally been used quite extensively in marketing applications to help characterise groups of similar consumers. The ability to better understand these groups can lead to more effective messaging, t 

Clustering
The process of dividing a data set into mutually exclusive groups such that the members of each group are as close as possible to one another, and different groups are as far as possible from one another, where distance is measured with respect to all ava 

CO
Abbreviation for Central Office.This can refer to either a telephone company switching centre or the type of telephone company switching centre. 

Co-branded Card
An alliance between a card issuer and a large non-deposit taking corporation which offers discounts/rewards to cardholders for using the card which bears the corporation's name. 

Co-branding
Promotional campaigns that take advantage of the name recognition of the companies involved. 

Co-maker
A second person that enters into a loan agreement, guaranteeing to make the payments if the borrower defaults. (People who have not established credit or people with poor credit ratings may need co-signers.) Also see Co-signer. 

Co-op Mailing
A mailing in which two or more offers, usually from different companies, are included in the same envelope. Typically, both companies share the costs of the mailing. 

Co-signer
A second person that enters into a loan agreement, guaranteeing to make the payments if the borrower defaults. (People who have not established credit or people with poor credit ratings may need co-signers.) Also see Co-maker. 

Coarse Classing
Attributes that are used in fine classing are grouped into larger groups to reduce the total number of attributes and to ensure that the sample count for each attribute is statistically significant. See Operational Grouping and Grouping. 

Codicils
This refers to an amendment made to an existing will. The overall will does not change, only the aspect referred to by the codicil. 

Coding
The process of preparing the information on the credit applications and the associated credit bureau reports, in order to be placed into computer-usable form. 

Cohort
A group of items sharing a common quality, for example all accounts that were opened in the same month. Also known as a Tranche. 

Coincident Flow Rates
The product of the individual net flows from current to write-off for a given two-month period. Changes in the flow rates provide a measure of the overall efficiency of the collections department. 

Collaborative Filtering
Collaborative filtering is a technology utilised primarily to predict the preference of an individual. The basic premise of collaborative filtering is that people with similar tastes tend to like similar type of items. Collaborative filtering requires a f 

Collateral
(1) Refers to assets set aside and pledged to a lender for the duration of a loan. If the borrower fails to meet the loan obligations, the lender has a claim to these assets. (2) One of the Three C’s of Credit: Character, Capacity and Collateral. Also see 

Collateral Security
This is extra security provided by a borrower to back up their intention to repay a loan. An example would be handing over the right of title to property, which the lender could take over and sell in the event of a loan default. 

Collection
An account in default for which the creditor attempts to receive payment. Indicates any account/trade that reflects a collection status, special comment, narrative, remarks, or collection segment ID. 

Collections Scorecard
A statistically derived behaviour scorecard developed for predicting the future risk of accounts in the early stages of collections. 

Combination Variables
The process of computing a new variable based on two or more other variables. This adds to the power of highly correlated variables and can also be used when building behaviour scoring templates. 

Combined Rule
User rules that are linked together to form more complex questions than simple rules, requiring a Yes or No answer. 

Commitment
A legally binding bank obligation to provide loans up to a specified amount for a specified period. This type of lending agreement usually includes protective covenants that would limit/terminate the commitment upon specified signs of adverse changes in c 

Common Causes
Causes of variations that is inherent to a process over time. They cause the rhythmic, common variations in the system of causes, and affect every outcome of the process and everyone working in the process. See Control Chart. 

Common Data Architecture
A comprehensive data architecture that provides a common context within which an integrated data resource is developed so that it adequately supports the business demand for information. 

Common Data Modelling
The process of developing a model of the integrated data resource within a common data architecture. The process facilitates the integration of existing data and increases the awareness and understanding of the data. It is a process to plan the distributi 

Common Gateway Interface (CGI)
A programming interface that enables a Web server to communicate with an external program and to pass the results back to a user. Also see Interface. 

Common Programming Interface-Communications.
Abbreviated as CPI-C. An application-level interface for direct program-to-program communication. 

Communications Port
The place on the back of your computer where you plug in your modem. Also known as a Comm Port or Serial Port. 

Company Card
A credit or charge card issued to companies and used by named employees. Companies receive a statement for each card, as well as one showing the total spent on all their cards. 

Compiled List
Names and addresses taken from directories, newspapers, public records etc. It also refers to people who have something in common. Compiled lists are usually the least useful or responsive for direct marketing campaigns, as Response Lists tend to generate 

Compiler
Software that translates a program in source code form into machine-level code to allow the computer to perform the program's instructions. The output from a compiler is called an object module. 

Complexity theory
A mathematical theory that attempts to rank problems by how difficult they are to solve. 

Compliance
A process where Visa/MasterCard resolves disputes between members arising from violations of the international operating regulations, when the issuing member can certify that a financial loss has occurred, or will occur, for a specific amount and no charg 

Compound Flows
The percentage of the balances that are current, which will eventually be written-off. This is a method of making reserves or provisions for write-off. 

Comprehensive Insurance
This form of insurance covers any number of eventualities. For example, comprehensive vehicle insurance covers vehicle repair in the event of an accident or fire, protection in the event of vehicle theft or hijacking, and cover for third party damage. 

Computation Period
The number of years from now that you can safely project Customer Lifetime Value. The Computation Period is shorter for products that soon become obsolete. 

Computer Simulation
A computer technique to predict the outcome of various events in the future, given many variables. When there are many variables, simulation is often the only way to reasonably predict the outcome. 

Computer Telephony Integration (CTI)
The software, hardware and programming necessary to integrate the computer and telephone so that they can work together seamlessly and intelligently. See Database Call Handling. 

Concentrator
A financial institution or a third party service provider that has been retained by a biller to handle payment and/or remittance of data. 

Conditional
The observation or measurement of a phenomenon for a subgroup of cases where the value of one (or more) particular variable(s) is held constant. 

Conditional Data Structure Integrity
A rule for documenting data relation cardinality. 

Conditional Data Value Integrity
Data integrity that specifies whether the values in data characteristics are required, optional, or prevented under certain conditions. 

Confidence Interval
The range and associated probability of the estimate of a given event. 

Confidence Level
In risk analysis, the degree of assurance that a specified failure rate is not exceeded. 

Confidentiality Agreement
An agreement which precedes any contract with an outsourcing agency, ensuring that a company’s confidential information will not be disclosed to other companies. 

Confounding
The condition where it is impossible to determine which of two or more variables is responsible for an observed effect. 

Congestion
The excessive density of traffic in a data communication path where the load to exceed the capacity. 

Conjoint Analysis
Also referred to as Feature Trade-Off Analysis. A method for establishing respondents’ utilities based on the preferences they express for combinations of product attributes and features. 

Connection Weights
Referring to the weight associated with a connection between two nodes in a neural network. The target node contains a summation function of some form to add up the connection weights of the arcs arriving at the target node from the source nodes. 

Consideration
Financial term. The money value of a share transaction, prior to the inclusion of commissions, stamp duty and associated costs. 

Consolidation Loan
A loan offered as a means of amalgamating a number of other, smaller loans, (usually from multiple lenders), particularly where the customer may be in arrears. The loan principal is generally paid out to the other lenders. 

Consolidator
A Bill Service Provider (BSP) that consolidates bills from other BSPs or billers and delivers them for presentment to the customer service provider. Also referred to as a Bill Consolidator. 

Consumer
Any private individual. 

Consumer credit
Credit extended to a person primarily for personal, family, or household purposes 

Consumer Price Index (CPI)
An index showing changes in the cost of living, or inflation, based on the average cost of a ‘basket’ of goods and services. 

Contact
A point of electrical connection between a smart card and its external interface device. 

Contact Card
Any card where information is transferred to a reader via a series of contact points located on the card. 

Contactless Card
Smart card which transfers data using radio frequency technology via a transmitter and receiver. 

Contingency
An event that may or may not occur. 

Continuation
A mailing to the same list following a successful test of a portion of the list. A continuation becomes a ‘rollout’ when the entire list is mailed. 

Continuity
Products or services that are bought as a series of small purchases, rather than all at one time. For example, the Book of The Month Club, or other products shipped on a regular schedule. 

Continuous
A variable is said to be continuous or quantitative if its values are real numbers such as age, income, amount purchased. 

Continuous Characteristic
A characteristic that has a continuous set of values. For example, Age, (18-110), Income, (0-multi-billionaire), Time at Address, (0-110). 

Continuous Fields
Fields that have a numeric or regularly ordered range of values, like age, for example, 45, 46, 47, and so on. 

Continuous Outcome
Situations where the dependent variable has a continuum of values, e.g. revenue. 

Contract
An agreement entered into by parties who intend to bind themselves thereby. There must be consensus between the parties as to the material terms of the contract. 

Contractual Delinquency
The level of an accounts delinquency calculated by the total number of months of outstanding payments due. 

Contractually Liable
Those parties who are expressly obligated to repay all debts arising on an account by reason of an agreement to that effect. 

Control Chart
A control chart identifies two types of variation in a process, common causes and special causes. See Common Causes. 

Control Group
In a test or experiment, two or more samples of accounts will be selected. The control group has no changes made to it, whereas the test groups will be treated in different ways. The outcome of the test is determined by measuring the results from the diff 

Controller
A device for managing the data input and output from several devices, which are connected with a mainframe. These devices can include terminals, disks or tape drives. Controllers usually contain a small processor, which permits them to manage the flow of 

Convenience User
A cardholder who pays the balance in full on each payment due date. 

Convergence
In information technology, convergence is a term for the combining of personal computers, telecommunication, and television into a user experience that is accessible to everyone. 

Conversion
The transfer of data from off-line storage to on-line storage. 

Conversion Rate
The percentage of responders who become customers. 

Converted Characteristic
A characteristic that requires some form of conversion from the raw information provided. For example, Age can be converted from a customer's Date of Birth. 

Convertible Bond
A bond the holder can convert into a specified number of shares issued by the company that initiated the bond. Also known as Convertible Securities. 

Convertible Securities
A bond the holder can convert into a specified number of shares issued by the company that initiated the bond. Also known as Convertible Bond. 

Cookie
A file that is created by a Web site and stored and updated on the visitor’s computers. It can be used by a Web site to record data about the user, enabling it to produce a customised response. 

Copy
The text contained within a direct mail campaign. 

Corporate Card
A bankcard issued to companies for use by company employees. The liability for abuse of the card usually rests with the company and not with the employee. 

Corporate Data
All of the databases of the company. This includes legacy systems, old and new transaction systems, general business systems, client/server databases, data warehouses and data marts. 

Correlated Exposure
The exposure that takes into account the impact of correlation between two or more factors in question. 

Correlation
The interdependence between two or more characteristics, which can be explained by a linear relationship. 

Correlation Coefficient
A correlation coefficient is a number between -1 and 1 which measures the degree to which two variables are linearly related. If there is perfect linear relationship with positive slope between the two variables, we have a correlation coefficient of 1. If 

Correspondent Bank
A bank that accepts deposits and performs banking services for other banks. Correspondent banking arrangements exist between local banks and banks located throughout the world. 

Cost Centre
An accounting term that refers to a department or function in the organisation that does not generate profit. 

Cost Delay
The money a company pays to queue callers, assuming a toll-free service telephone 

Cost of Capital
The rate of return that has to be earned on new initiatives or business ventures so that the value of the company and the market price of the common stock does not decline. 

Cost of Goods Sold
These are the costs directly related to items sold. This includes wages, salaries, raw materials, depreciation, obsolescence, utilities and expenditure on any associated supplies or services. 

Cost Per Inquiry
This is calculated by dividing the total cost of a mailing or an advertisement by the number of inquiries received. See CPI. 

Cost Per Order
This is similar to Cost Per Inquiry, except it is based on actual orders rather than just inquiries. See CPO. 

Counter-party Credit Ratings
Ratings assigned under the Corporate Credit Rating Service (formerly called the Credit Assessment Service) and Sovereign Credit Ratings which are forms of issuer credit ratings. Issuer credit ratings are based on current information furnished by obligors 

Counterclaim
A claim made by a Defendant against a Plaintiff. This is a cross action which does not amount simply to a defence of the original claim. 

Counterfeit Card
A plastic card which has been fraudulently printed, embossed, or encoded to appear to be a genuine bankcard, but which has not been authorised by MasterCard or VISA or issued by a member. A card originally issued by a member but subsequently altered witho 

Counterpart
The other party in a trade arrangement. Typically, one party refers to their trading party as their ‘counterpart’. 

Counterparty
One party to a trade. Trade can occur between two or more counterparties. 

Covariance
A measure of the extent to which two numeric variables are linearly related. 

Covenant
An agreement or promise in the form of a deed, binding the person/s signing it to undertake or refrain from certain activities. The covenant also usually includes the transfer of specified payments. 

CPI
Consumer Price Index. An index showing changes in the cost of living, or inflation, based on the average cost of a ‘basket’ of goods and services. 

CPI
Acronym for Cost Per Inquiry, which is calculated by dividing the total cost of a mailing or an advertisement by the number of inquiries received. 

CPI-C
Common Programming Interface-Communications. An application-level interface for direct program-to-program communication. 

CPO
Acronym for Cost Per Order. This is similar to CPI, except it is based on actual orders rather than just inquiries. 

CPU
Acronym for Central Processing Unit. This is the heart of a mainframe or PC. 

Cram-down Rules
The order of payment used in many bankruptcy litigation systems. Typically, major creditors are fully compensated before minor creditors receive anything, and minor creditors are fully compensated before shareholders receive anything. In practice, lower s 

Credit
The right granted by a creditor to an applicant to defer payment of a debt, incur debt and defer its payment, or purchase property or services and defer payment. 

Credit Bureau
A reporting agency that assembles information on borrowers to help lenders evaluate credit worthiness. Borrowers are entitled to see their credit report and dispute or add to the information they feel is erroneous. Objection(s) must be filed in writing wi 

Credit Bureau Report
The information resulting from an enquiry to a Credit Bureau. At minimum this will be judgments or enquiry volumes. Many countries Credit Bureau also provide data on current and previous loans and accounts. 

Credit Bureau Score
The total number of points gained by an applicant, derived solely from data available from the Credit Bureau. 

Credit Card
A type of payment card that gives the cardholder the option to pay less than the full amount of the statement each month. 

Credit Community
A website established for the South African and international credit industry, featuring articles of interest to risk and credit management professionals. Registration is free at www.credit.co.za. 

Credit Default Swap
A swap in which A pays B the periodic fee, and B pays A the floating payment that depends on whether a predefined credit even has occurred, or not. The fee might be quarterly, semi-annual, or annual. The credit event might be a declaration of bankruptcy o 

Credit Deposit
The value of a merchant's credit card purchases that are credited to its bank account after the acquiring bank buys the merchant's sales slips. The deposit is credited but is not funded until the acquiring bank gets the monetary value from the issuer duri 

Credit Disability and Credit Life Insurance
Optional insurance that (a) makes loan payments if an illness or accident hinders an account holder to earn income or (b) pays the remaining balance if an account holder dies. Generally, this insurance is included in the monthly payments. 

Credit Enhancement
Methods that reduce the credit exposure from a counterparty, e.g. letter of credit, guarantee. 

Credit Exposure
The amount subject to either changes in value upon credit quality up (down)grade or loss in the event of default. 

Credit History
A record of how a person has borrowed and repaid debts. 

Credit Insurance
This is completely optional insurance. There are many types, including credit life, credit disability, or credit unemployment (loss of income). Credit insurance can be purchased from the lender either as: (1) a monthly charge that is added to each monthly 

Credit Life Insurance.
This is completely optional insurance which is geared to settle all or a portion of a mortgage liability in the event of the death of the lender. 

Credit Limit
The maximum outstanding monetary amount the cardholder (account holder) is permitted to incur at any time. 

Credit Line
The monetary amount a consumer has available for use. 

Credit Loss
The amount lost (charged off) as a result of failure of the cardholder to repay the amount owed on the account. 

Credit Reference Agency
Reference agencies verify identity and the credit history of credit applicants. See Bureaux. 

Credit Reference Information
The information resulting from an enquiry to a credit bureau’s database. In the UK this includes judgments, voters roll, previous search and shared financial/non-financial account information. 

Credit Report
A report by a credit bureau of an individual’s available credit and their payment history, including on-time payments, late payments, and the number of times a loan payment was missed. Judgment liens to collect a debt, bankruptcy petitions, and tax liens 

Credit Risk
The risk that counterparty to a financial transaction will fail to perform according to the terms and conditions of the contract, thus causing the asset holder to suffer a financial loss. 

Credit Risk Intelligence
Any technology that lets users independently access and analyse credit risk data with the objective of delivering valuable credit risk information for timely, informed decision-making. 

Credit Score
The sum of the points awarded to an applicant for the appropriate attribute of each of the characteristics in a scoring table. If the credit score is at or above the cut-off score, then the application is recommended for acceptance. If the credit score is 

Credit Scoring
An objective methodology widely used by credit grantors to make credit decisions. Also known as Point Scoring. 

Credit Scoring System
The credit scoring algorithm used to calculate scores. 

Credit Spread
The excess of the yield on a note having credit risk over a comparable note not having credit risk. 

Credit Strategy
A strategic function responsible for optimising credit losses versus business development. Also known as Risk Management. 

Credit Transaction
Every aspect of an applicant’s dealings with a creditor concerning an application for credit or an extension of existing credit, including, but not limited to, information requirements; investigation procedures; standards of creditworthiness; terms of cre 

Credit Tug of War
The term given to the ongoing conflict between risk management departments, whose aim is to minimise risk and charge-offs and the marketing department, whose aim is to maximise the volume of new accounts. 

Credit Union
A co-operative association that offers loans to its members at low interest rates. 

Creditor
A person who, in the ordinary course of business, (a) regularly participates in the decision of whether or not to extend credit, including a creditor’s assignee or transferee, who so participates and (b) regularly refers applicants or prospective applican 

Creditworthiness
The general qualification for borrowing in the opinion of a lender, as based on a borrower’s credit history or as determined by a credit scoring system. 

Criminal Action
A legal proceeding where the State prosecutes an individual for an act or omission, which is punishable by law. 

Crisp Logic
When all data fits or is classified into specific categories. 

Cross Counts
Cross tabulations of any characteristic against score bands to show the score distributions of the attributes. Also known as Cross-tabulations. 

Cross-border Trading
Trade taking place between persons or entities from two or more different countries. 

Cross-selling
Encouraging customers to buy products from other departments or categories 

Cross-tabulations
Two-dimensional tables listing the applications in the development sample that fall within combinations of score intervals and attribute groups of characteristics. For example, how many good and bad credit unaware applicants score between 180 and 184. Als 

Cross-validation
A method for estimating the accuracy of a statistic that is based on a small sample size. 

Cryptography
Cryptography is the science of information security. The word is derived from the Greek kryptos, meaning hidden. Objectives key objectives include cconfidentiality, integrity, non-repudiation and authentication. See Authentication. 

CSS
Abbreviated for Cascading Style Sheet. A set of specifications that control how HTML elements are displayed in a Web browser. CSS can be used to specify fonts, sizes, and colors of the text in HTML documents. Cascading style sheets make it easier for auth 

CTI
Abbreviation for Computer Telephony Integration. The software, hardware and programming necessary to integrate the computer and telephone so that they can work together seamlessly and intelligently. See Database Call Handling. 

Currencies
The term used to refer to the monetary denominations used by different countries. 

Current
An account considered to have a good paying status with the creditor in which payments are received at the designated monthly time frame by the creditor. 

Current Account
The account used to write cheques or use a debit card against. Also known in the US as a Checking Account. 

Current Assets
Current assets include all items reasonably expected to be converted into cash, sold, or consumed within 12 months. 

Current Credit Exposure
For market-driven instruments, the amount it would cost to replace a transaction today should the be a default by the counterparty. If there is an enforceable netting agreement with the counterparty, the current exposure is the net replacement cost. Alter 

Current Liabilities
Current liabilities are all obligations reasonably expected to be settled in the next 12 months. This includes obligations that are due on demand, or will be due on demand, within 12 months. 

Current Risk
The risk exposure presented in the given month based on the prior month's processing volumes. 

Current Yield
The annual rate of return on a security or stock, calculated by dividing the interest or dividends paid, by the current market price for the stock. 

Custodial
Typically, this term is used to explain the powers appointed to the guardian of a child such as taking decisions relating to upbringing and education. Custody can also refer to the role of an institution in holding items for safe keeping on behalf of othe 

Custodian
A bank that holds assets on behalf of investors. 

Custom Report
A report that once designed, exactly meets the requirements of the company. Once programmed, the report can be run daily, weekly or monthly, for very little cost. 

Customer Consolidation
One of four models of electronic bill presentment and payment (EBPP). Bill content and payment instructions and/or a payment mechanism are sent to the customer via e-mail. Other models include: Biller Direct, Thick Consolidator and Thin Consolidator. 

Customer Information File
This is a consolidation of many different accounts held by a household or individual and it is often used for marketing purposes, by banks and other financial institutions. Also known as CIF. 

Customer Life Cycle 
In customer relationship management (CRM), customer life cycle is a term used to describe the progression of steps a customer goes through when considering, purchasing, using, and maintaining loyalty to a product or service. 

Customer Lifetime Value
The contribution to overheads and profit made by a customer during their total relationship with your company. See Computation Period, LTV and Acquisition Cost. 

Customer Scoring
Developing and applying scorecards at the customer level instead of at an individual product or account level. A Customer Score takes into account all of the products held by the customer, and is thus used to make customer-level decisions, such as setting 

Customer Service Representative (CSR)
The person who handles incoming or outgoing calls. Also referred to as an agent, telephone sales or telephone service representative (TSR), rep, associate, consultant, engineer, operator, technician, account executive, team member, customer service. 

Cut-off Score
The minimum score required for a credit application to be approved. This represents the boundary between accepted and rejected applications and it is set by the credit grantor. 

Cut-off Strategy
The strategy which determines the cut-off score. This will be driven by either the required volume of accepted accounts, the acceptable bad rate or a combination of these. 

CVC
Abbreviation for Card Verification Code. A unique value calculated from the data encoded on the magnetic stripe of a MasterCard card, validating card information during the authorisation process. 

CVV
Acronym for Card Verification Value. A unique check value encoded on the magnetic stripe of a credit card to validate card information during the authorisation process. The card verification value is calculated from the data encoded on the magnetic stripe 

Cyber Call Centre
A new generation of call centres that is internet-enabled to handle all channels of communication with customer, including electronic mail, Internet, fax, letters, video conference and telephone. Customer service agents can see the same Web page as the cu 

Cyberspace
A term coined by sci-fi novelist William Gibson, who said in 1996: "Cyberspace has a nice buzz to it, it's something that an advertising man might have thought up, and when I got it I knew that it was slick and essentially hollow and that I'd have to fill 

Cycle
The grouping of cardholder accounts to provide for a distribution of workload and easier account identification. 

Cycle Billing
The preparation of monthly cardholder statements by group or cycle for the purpose of evenly distributing the workload and receipt of cardholder payments. 

Cycle Period
A specific period of time during which both debit and credit transactions are accumulated from billing. 

Cycles Delinquent
The number of billing cycles that an account has failed to make a qualifying payment for. For example 2 cycles delinquent means that an account has missed 2 qualifying payments. See Dunning Level. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
D

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Damages
A court’s estimated compensation, in money terms, for a wrong suffered by Plaintiff in contract, or as a result of other damages. 

Data
The raw ingredients, (usually facts or figures), that when processed, produce information for management information reports. 

Data Access Tools
An end-user orientated tool that allows users to build SQL queries by pointing and clicking on a list of tables and fields in the data warehouse. 

Data Acquisition
A process of bringing data into a system, including data quality management processes for validation, transformation, joining, or eliminating duplicate information prior to its entry into a database or data warehouse. 

Data Aggregation
A type of data derivation where a data value is derived from the aggregation of two or more contributing data characteristics in different data occurrences within the same data subject. 

Data Archaeology
Tracing data to its original source and understanding the validation processes that have been used to collect, correct, and store the information. 

Data Capture
The process of collecting data from application forms or other paper based sources, and transferring it to computer media. This may involve keying or scanning. Also known as Draft Capture. 

Data Classification Schemes
Abstract levels of data classification above the working level that provide a broader perspective of data. Also see Categorical Levels of Data Classification. 

Data Cleaning
The process of ensuring that all values in a data set are consistent and correctly recorded. Also known as Data Cleansing. 

Data Cleansing
The process of ensuring that all values in a data set are consistent and correctly recorded. Also known as Data Cleaning. 

Data Clusters
Clustering is an unsupervised version of Classification. See Categorical Levels of Data Classification. 

Data Element
The most elementary unit of data that can be identified and described in a dictionary or repository and cannot be subdivided. 

Data Encryption Key
A key used for the encryption of message text and for the computation of message integrity checks. Also see Signatures. 

Data Encryption Standard
A popular standardised encryption scheme. 

Data Enhancement
A process whereby a customer file has data appended to it, (such as age, income, home value), from an external data file. Also see Overlayed Data and Enhancement. 

Data Entry
The process of entering names and addresses and other data into magnetic media such as tapes. Also see Keypunching. 

Data Extract
Data that normally resides on an operational system and is removed from that system for loading into a Data Warehouse. 

Data Instance
The point in time or the period of time for which the data value accurately represents the real world. Within the common data architecture, data instance is not the same as a data occurrence. 

Data Management Systems
A set of software modules that are used to manipulate and manage, create, read, update, and delete, data elements within one or more databases. 

Data Mapping
Not all databases capture exactly the same information in the same way, and so merging databases into a single consistent structure requires transformations, calculations, and other ‘mappings’ from one context to the other. For example, one database may capture a client’s age in years, while another captures the date of birth, and a third captures the age in terms of defined ranges. 

Data Mart
A copy of transaction data specifically structured for query and analysis It is designed to address a specific business problem rather than the information requirements of an entire organisation. A data mart is a logical subset of the complete data warehouse. 

Data Mining
The extraction of predictive information from large databases. Also known as Predictive Modelling. 

Data Normalisation
A process to develop the conceptual schema from the external schema. 

Data Replacement
Substituting data into fields in place of the data that originally appeared there. It is used for imputing missing values, replacing anomalous data, and limiting the influence of outliers. 

Data Specification
A description of all of the data that is considered during the scorecard development. 

Data Staging Area
A storage area and set of processes that clean, transform, combine, de-duplicate, household, archive, and prepare source data for use in the data warehouse. 

Data Structure Assumptions
The specific data requirements for statistical modeling techniques. For example, some modelling techniques require the data to be categorical, whilst others have distributional assumptions. 

Data Value
The individual fact and figures contained in data characteristics, data characteristic variations, data attributes, and data items. 

Data Visualisation
The visual interpretation of complex relationships in multidimensional data. 

Data Warehouse
A copy of transaction data specifically structured for query and analysis, and designed for cross-functional data integration. The data warehouse is the combination of all the constituent data marts. Also see Data Extract. 

Data Warehouse Management Tools
Software that extracts and transforms data from operational systems and loads it into the Data Warehouse. 

Database
Information that has been gathered that is closely related. Most databases consist of (a) fields or columns containing units of information and (b) records or rows containing sets of fields. See Flat File. 

Database Administrator
This is a person who controls a database and typically manages the budget for the database. Also known as DBA. 

Database Call Handling
A CTI application, whereby the ACD works in synchronisation with the database computer to process calls, based on information in the database. For example, a caller inputs digits into a voice processing system; the database retrieves information on that customer and then issues instructions to the ACD on how to handle the call. 

Database Management System (DBMS) 
A software application that enables you to create and manipulate data in the form of databases. 

Database Marketing
A term used to describe the art/science of selecting a database of a potential set of customers for a given product or need. For example, defining a target mailing list for people likely to acquire a new mutual fund product. This results in increased customer loyalty and repeat sales. 

Date Opened
The date when a credit agreement was originally initiated with a credit grantor. 

Date Reported
The date when a listing of the credit status of an account is placed on the credit profile. 

Day of Week Routing
A network service that routes calls to alternate locations, based on the day of the week. There are also options for day of year and time of day routing. 

Days
The days since public record action was filed. 

DBA
Acronym for Database Administrator. This is a person who controls a database and typically manages the budget for the database. 

DBMS
An abbreviation for Database Management System. A software application that enables you to create and manipulate data in the form of databases. 

DDA
Acronym for Demand Deposit Account, which is a Current Account or Cheque Account. 

De Dupe
Identifying and consolidating duplicate names. This is usually done in a merge/purge operation. 

Dealer Training
A process whereby dealers are trained to handle and service your product. 

Debenture
A certificate of indebtedness, an instrument in which a corporation or company acknowledges indebtedness for a specified sum on which interest is payable until such time that the principle sum is settled. 

Debit Card
A type of payment card where the money for each transaction made with the card is debited from the cardholder’s account. 

Debit Transaction
A bankcard used to purchase goods and services and to obtain cash, which debits the cardholder's personal deposit account. 

Debt Consolidation
This refers to a loan that combines all or many of a person's debts into a single loan. Debt consolidation loans might combine some or all of the following types of debts: mortgages, credit card bills, medical bills, car loans, loans to purchase major appliances, home improvement loans, etc. 

Debt Service
The schedule for the repayment of interest and principal amount on an outstanding debt. 

Debug 
To identify, diagnose, and correct errors in program logic. 

Deceased
A person who has died. 

Decile
One tenth of an amount. For example, the top decile of a bank’s accounts are those falling within the top 10%. 

Decision Analysis
Decision analysis refers to the broad quantitative field. It overlaps operations research and statistics that deals with modelling, optimising and analysing decisions made by individuals, groups and organisations. 

Decision Key
A data element that is used to sort accounts or applications. See Data Element or Adaptive Control. 

Decision Support
The activity of transforming data into information to allow for the making of decisions in an organisation. 

Decision Tree
A tree-shaped graphical representation of the relationships between a dependent variable and a set of independent variables. Typically, the dependent variable is positioned at the top or left of the tree (root node), while independent variables (nodes) and their relationships are shown as branches in the tree. This is also called a Classification Tree. 

Decision Variable
A controllable variable whose value is determined by the application and whose value forms part of the solution to the problem being solved. 

Decisioning Strategy
A decisioning strategy determines how an organisation will make a particular type of decision: for example, a strategy aimed at increasing revenue, which determines how to select customers for credit line increases. 

Declared Limit
The credit limit that is notified or declared to the customer. 

Declines
Those applicants that are not granted the credit they applied for. 

Decoy
A unique name added to a mailing list, which is used to spot unauthorised use of the list. Also see Seeds. 

Decree
Scottish equivalent of a Count Court Judgment. 

Deed of Settlement
The written record of the final resolution of an action or dispute between the parties. A deed of settlement may be made by an order of the court. 

Default
Failure to carry out the terms of a loan contract by missing one or more loan payments. It could apply to any part of the loan agreement. 

Default Judgment
Judgment granted to the Plaintiff in the absence of and without hearing the defendant. This judgment is taken when the defendant fails to indicate to the court that he wishes to defend the action, fails to plead or fails to attend the trial. 

Default Notice
A notice that must be sent to customers who are in arrears, before litigation or other recovery actions can be taken to recover the debt. Once the notice has been served, the lender has the right to demand repayment of the full balance outstanding rather than only the arrears or over limit amount outstanding. 

Default Probability
The likelihood of default on a debt within a stated timeframe. 

Defendant
The party responding to a court action, usually the debtor. 

Degaussing
Magnetic stripe data erasure. 

Delinquency
Failure to make a loan payment on time. Delinquent loans payments may be subject to a late fee, expressed as a flat fee or a percentage of the amount due. 

Delinquency Distribution Report
A report produced from a credit grantors master file, which depicts the number of applicants booked and delinquent at various score intervals and account date opened timeframes. 

Delinquent
A rating assigned to accounts when the consumer fails to make the obligatory payments. An account is delinquent when the credit obligations (payments) are not meeting the current definition (for example, an account that is 30 days delinquent has missed one month of payments; an account that is 60 days delinquent has missed two months of payment; etc.). 

Delivery versus Payment
The good delivery of items in exchange for simultaneous, final and irrevocable payment. 

Demand Deposit Account
This is a Current Account or Cheque Account. Also known as DDA. 

Demand Feature
A feature that allows a lender to call for repayment of the full balance owed under specified conditions such as a decrease in income or the decline in value of security (collateral). See Acceleration Clause. 

Demand Loan
A loan that must be repaid in full, on demand. 

Dematerialisation
The process of eliminating physical certificates or documents proving title of ownership and converting these records into electronic format only. Also see Immobilisation. 

Demographics
Demographic data usually refers to the data, which a country’s Census Bureau collects on a neighbourhood, such as income, education level, etc. This data can be appended to a household record. The data is not necessarily accurate for any particular household as it is the average for households in that block. However, this is usually the only data that is available. 

Dependence
The interdependence of the information contributed by two or more characteristics. For example, the ownership of a car and car insurance are two characteristics, which have nearly 100% dependence. Neither of them contributes any additional information about the applicant over and above what is contributed from just one of them. 

Dependent Variables
The fields that you wish to predict. 

Deposit
A deposit is a varied amount paid by the borrower to reduce the overall finance or loan amount outstanding. In some cases, a minimum deposit is required on certain asset purchases, for example, a 10% down payment on vehicles purchased. 

Deposit Account
A special account into which funds are deposited for a specific period, for example, 32 days. Account withdrawal can only be made upon expiry of the specific notice. The interest rate over the period is fixed with the terms of the deposit negotiated upfront. Also referred to as a Notice Deposit Account. 

Deposit Credit
The value of a merchant's credit card purchases that are credited to its bank account after the acquiring bank buys the merchant's sales slips. The deposit is credited but is not funded until the acquiring bank gets the monetary value from the issuer during settlement. Also referred to as Credit Deposit. 

Deregulation 
The reduction of government's role in controlling markets. 

Derivation
The creation of new independent variables as functions of existing fields. The new fields are created in the expectation that they will be better predictors than the existing fields. 

Derivative
A financial contract whose value is derived from the performance of assets, interest rates, currency exchange rates, or indexes. Derivative transactions can include a wide assortment of financial contracts. 

Derogatory
A rating assigned to accounts when the consumer fails to make the obligatory payments and is turned over for special handling, such as collections, charge-off, repossession, etc. 

Descending Cumulative Statistics
A table of scores showing, for each score, the percentage of applicants that can be expected to achieve that score or higher. 

Detailed Analysis
The process of defining all the possible attributes for every characteristic, and analysing each to show their good/bad distributions. Also see Fine Classing and Operational Grouping. 

Development Sample
The group of accounts that is used to develop the scorecard or a part of a population used to estimate or train a model. Also see Training Sample. 

Deviation
Mathematically defined as the difference between the mean and an observed value. 

Dial-up Line
A communications medium described as a non-dedicated telephone line, in which a connection is established by dialling a destination number and broken when the call is complete. This is the same type of phone line that you use at home. 

Dial-up Terminal
Electronic equipment used in a point-of-sale payment system that automatically dials a designated telephone number to obtain authorisation for sales by an electronic transfer of funds for cash, checks, or drafts in the purchase of retail goods and services. Also see Point-of-Sale (POS) Payment System. 

Dialled Number Identification System
This is a system whereby a call centre can observe what number the incoming callers dialled to reach the call centre. This is important as call centres handle calls from many incoming numbers for many purposes, but use the same bank of agents to take the calls. The call centre personnel need to know what number people were dialling so that they can react properly to the call. Also see DNIS. 

Dichotomous Outcome
Where there are only two values possible. Also known as Binary Outcome. 

Digital Line
A type of telephone transmission service that is much more reliable than the standard analogue line. All data is converted into bits before it is transmitted. A standard telephone line is called an Analogue Line. 

Digital Signature 
An electronic signature created using a public-key algorithm. A digital signature can be used by the recipient to authenticate the identity of the sender and to ensure the integrity of the message. 

Digitising
Conversion of non-textual data to digital form. 

Dimension Reduction
The reduction of the number of variables in data analysis, by elimination of those that have no impact on the analysis. 

Dimensional Data Modelling
A design methodology that for each business process enumerates relevant dimensions and measures. It provides a multidimensional conceptual view of data, including full support for hierarchies and multiple hierarchies. 

Diners Club
A Travel & Entertainment card issuer. 

Direct Access
A disk is a direct access device. Tape drives are not direct access devices as to find data on them; you have to read all the way through thousands of records to find the one you want. With direct access, you have all of the data stored at particular addresses. Accordingly, you can access each piece of data directly. 

Direct Cost Percent
The percentage of revenue that is applied to the cost of the product plus overhead, fixed costs, etc. 

Direct Mail
Any commercial offer mailed to a customer or prospect known at least by name and address. 

Direct Marketing
Direct marketing is an interactive system of marketing that uses one or more advertising media to effect a measurable response and/or transaction at any location, with this activity stored on a database. 

Direct Marketing Interactive
This is direct marketing that produces a measurable response or purchase. The data is stored on a database. 

Direct Payment
A method of collection used in the ACH network for certain claims, generally those that are repeated over a period of time, under which the debtor gives the originator a standing authorisation to debit his or her account. See ACH and ACH Network. 

Direct Response
A form of advertising or promotion, which seeks to generate a measurable reaction from customers or prospects, such as an inquiry, order or visit. Print or broadcast advertisements featuring a mail-back coupon or toll-free telephone number are among the most common forms of direct response advertising. 

Dirty Price
The price quoted for a bond or stock purchase, including any interest accrued. 

Disclosure Statement
A document required by federal or state laws that is prepared by lenders to provide their customers with an explanation of their credit terms, such as the Annual Percentage Rate (APR), finance charge, method of interest rate computation, payment schedule and minimum monthly payment, periodic rate, principal and other fees associated with the loan. 

Discontinued Operations (Net Tax)
Includes the net income from discontinued businesses as well as the gains or losses arising from their disposal. 

Discount Rate
The amount by which any future currency amount must be divided to produce the net present value of the amount. The formula is DR = (1 + i)/n where i = market rate of interest and n = number of years. The interest rate is usually doubled in the formula to account for risk. See DR. 

Discrete
Discrete means separate and distinct. Discretion and discreet derive from the same origin and have to do with the use of separate or individual judgement. See Categorical. 

Discrete Characteristic
A characteristic where there is no connection between its attributes. For example, employment can have multiple, unrelated attributes. 

Discrete Fields
Fields that contain different categories of field values. Also known as Categorical Fields. 

Discriminant Analysis
A classification technique used to allocate an applicant to one of a number of existing groups, e.g. goods and bads. 

Discriminate
To treat an applicant less favourably than other applicants. 

Disinflation
A reduction in the rate of inflation either as a result of government policy or of declining economic activity. 

Disintermediation
(1) To remove the middleman. The Internet is a great force of disintermediation, whereby consumers now have the opportunity to deal directly with manufacturers, cutting out the distributors and middlemen. (2) A withdrawal of funds from a financial institution in order to invest them directly. 

Disinvestment 
A reduction in capital investment as reflected by a decrease in capital goods and engaged through a company's decision not to replace depleted capital goods. 

Dispute
To question statements placed on a credit profile (short form codes) by either the consumer or the creditor in relation to a trade line. 

Distribution
The manner in which the data within a characteristic is spread across all of the attributes. 

Divergence
A measure of the strength of the scorecards. This is the distance between the means of the score distributions of Good and Bad accounts or applications. The greater the divergence, the better. Also see Scorecard Power. 

Diversification
A general risk management technique that combines a variety of investments or activities within a portfolio to minimise the impact of any one investment on the overall portfolio performance. 

Dividend
The proportion of a company’s earnings distributed to shareholders. Dividends are declared by the company board of directors. 

DNIS
Acronym for Dialled Number Identification System. This is a system whereby a call centre can observe what number the incoming callers dialled to reach the call centre. The call centre personnel need to know what number people were dialling so that they can react properly to the call. 

Doing Business As
Refers to the specific name and location of the merchant establishment where credit card purchases are made. 

Domain Name System
A general-purpose data query service whose principal use is the lookup of host addresses based on host names. Important domains are .com (commercial), .edu (educational), .net (network), .gov (U.S. government) and .org (organisation). 

Dormants
Credit or charge card accounts that are rarely or never used by the cardholder. 

Dow Jones Industrial Average
An index that tracks the daily share value of 30 large US companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The Dow Jones generally mirrors the exchange as a whole. 

Down Time
A time period when all or part of a system or network may not available to end users due to failure or maintenance. 

Download
The process of sending data from the server to the PC. 

Downsizing
Moving a function from a mainframe computer to a smaller computer such as a Mini, a LAN or a PC. 

DR
Acronym for Discount Rate, The amount by which any future currency amount must be divided to produce the net present value of the amount. The formula is DR = (1 + i)/n where i = market rate of interest and n = number of years. The interest rate is usually doubled in the formula to account for risk. 

Draft Capture 
The collection, formatting, and storage of information in computer memory. Some point-of-sale terminals perform data capture functions. Also known as Data Capture. See Point-of-Sale and Sale Payment System. 

Drill Down 
To select an element in an image in order to display additional information about that element, generally by displaying another Web page or another section in the same Web page. 

Dual Score Methods
The use of two scores in a credit decision. For example, using application score and credit bureau score, in a matrix approach, to applications decisioning. 

Dual Slot 
A smart card reader that can accommodate two cards simultaneously. 

Due Date 
Date on which the principal balance of a loan, debt instrument or other financial security is due and payable to the holder. Also see Maturity Date. 

Due Diligence
The process of reviewing and assessing a fund’s performance, management team, processes, etc. 

Dumb Terminals
A screen and keyboard linked to a computer mainframe, allowing operators to enter and receive data from a mainframe. Dumb terminals have limited independent processing power. 

Dummy Variable
These are binary variables with a value 1 or 0 used to represent the coarse classed attributes of the scorecard variables. 

Dump
A printed display of the contents of a tape or data file. Organisations take a dump of a sample of records in a customer database, in order to check for accuracy. 

Dunning Letter
A collections letter that is sent to a delinquent account in order to elicit payment. 

Dunning Level
The number of billing cycles that an account has failed to make a qualifying payment for. For example dunning level 2 means that an account has missed 2 qualifying payments. See Cycles Delinquent. 

Duplicate
The same name occurring twice or more on the same file. All very large databases contain duplicates as name or address spelling may vary slightly. Good service bureaux can reduce but never totally eliminate duplicates. 

Duplication Factor
The percentage of names on one list that are also on another list. It is a measure of affinity in the lists. 

Dynamic Answer
An ACD feature that automatically reconfigures the number of rings before the system answers calls, based on real-time queue information. As costs do not commence until the ACD answers calls, this feature can save callers or the call center money when long distance charges apply. See Automatic Call Distributor. 

Dynamic Delinquency Report
A report that is produced on a monthly or quarterly basis, reflecting the growth in the delinquency levels of a set of accounts that have been open for approximately the same period of time. 

Dynamic Performance Cohort Matrix
A report that is produced on a regular basis to monitor the growth in the delinquency levels for a set of accounts, which have been open for approximately the same length of time, (i.e. they have the same exposure period). The reports are typically updated monthly or quarterly. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
E

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

E-business
Derived from ‘electronic business’ it is the conduct of business electronically, especially using the Internet and digital television. It involves buying, selling, servicing customers and collaborating with business partners. 

E-Cash
Electronic cash is a payment mechanism designed for the Internet. It is electronic money that can be passed along from person to person like cash. It is anonymous like cash, and has value immediately. 

E-Cheque
The electronic equivalent of a paper cheque. 

E-Commerce
Also known as Electronic Commerce. The transacting of business electronically rather than via paper. 

E-mail 
E-mail or Electronic Mail is the exchange of computer-stored messages by telecommunication. E-mail messages are usually encoded in ASCII text. 

E-pay
Also known as Electronic Bill Payment. An alternative to paper cheques for paying bills. Consumers can use PCs, telephones or ATMs to send electronic instructions to their bank to withdraw funds from their accounts and pay merchants. Payments may be made either electronically or by a paper cheque issued by the bill payment provider. 

Earnings per Share
EPS is a measure of the profitability of a company. 

EBA
Acronym for the European Banking Association. 

EBCDIC
A protocol for putting data on a tape. All IBM mainframes use EBCDIC. Most others use ASCII. 

EBP
Abbreviation for Electronic Bill Presentment, the electronic delivery of vendor requests for payment. 

EC
Acronym for the European Commission. 

ECA
Abbreviation for Electronic Cheque Acceptance. A system that captures banking information off a paper cheque and converts it into an electronic item processed through the Automated Clearing House network. 

ECB
Acronym for the European Central Bank. 

ECBS
Acronym for the European Committee for Banking Standards. 

ECOA
A U.S. federal law requiring lenders to give businesses and consumers equal access to credit. This is the basic legislation in the United States that addresses credit scoring and has been amended from time to time. 

ECOA Codes
Specific codes placed on a credit profile that indicate the contractual liability. 

Economic Capital
The aggregate capital required as a cushion for the company's overall risk of unexpected loss. 

Economic Exposure
Any type of risk arising from movements in real exchange rates. 

Economic Growth
The rate of change in output from one year to the next. 

Economic Income
The cash flow of a project or company plus the changes in its present value. 

Economic Indicators
Statistics that help determine how the economy is faring. Examples of these include the Consumer Price Index and unemployment rates. 

Economic Value Added
Also known as EVA. This is calculated by using net income, plus adjustments for any accounting distortions, less the cost of the capital used to generate the income. 

ECR
An Electronic Cash Register. A system, which functions most efficiently and effectively for large businesses with many registers in single or multiple locations. 

ECU
Acronym for European Currency Unit. 

EDC
Abbreviation for Electronic Draft Capture. A point-of-sale device that reads information encoded in the bankcard's magnetic stripe, performs authorisation functions, stores transaction data, and batches and transmits that data to the acquirer for processing. The stored transactions are used to create settlement files and transaction reports 

EDI
Abbreviation for Electronic Data Interchange. A direct exchange of information electronically, from one firm's computer to another firm's computer in a structured format. 

Edit Check
A software process whereby data to be entered into a database is checked for logic before it goes into the database. 

Efficient Collectables
A classification of accounts that identifies account holders who will respond to collections activity. 

Efficient Market Theory
States that given full access to all information, the market’s current price for a share is the best estimate of future returns from that share. The faster share prices respond to information, the more efficient the particular market is considered to be. 

EFT/POS
Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) at the Point-of -Sale (POS). A payment option, which allows consumers to pay for purchases by transferring funds directly from their accounts to a merchant's accounts. 

Elderly
Age 62 or older. 

Electron
Electron is a Visa debit card. Anything bought with an Electron card has to be authorised electronically, which means the transaction is more secure. A debit card is suitable for someone opening their first bank account, as they cannot be overdrawn without permission. 

Electronic Banking
A method of banking making use of infrastructure other than a physical branch or outlet. This includes banking via the Internet or computer facility, Automated Teller Machine or telephone. 

Electronic Bill Delivery
A bill delivery system offered by Visa Interactive that allows banks to send consumers their bills through their personal computers. This system now allows consumers to transfer funds through their bank to the billing agent itself. 

Electronic Bill Payment (E-pay)
An alternative to paper cheques for paying bills. Consumers can use PCs, telephones or ATMs to send electronic instructions to their bank to withdraw funds from their accounts and pay merchants. Payments may be made either electronically or by a paper cheque issued by the bill payment provider. 

Electronic Bill Presentment (EBP)
The electronic delivery of vendor requests for payment. Vendors send consumers their bills via PCs or telephones. 

Electronic Cash Register (ECR)
A system, which functions most efficiently and effectively for large businesses with many registers in single or multiple locations. An ECR provides a direct, computer-to-computer linkup. 

Electronic Cheque Acceptance (ECA)
A system that captures banking information off a paper cheque and converts it into an electronic item processed through the Automated Clearing House network. With ECA, cheques are processed similarly to credit cards, and the paper cheque is returned to the consumer at the Point-of-Sale. 

Electronic Commerce (E-commerce)
The transacting of business electronically rather than via paper. 

Electronic Data Capture Terminal
Also referred to as Electronic Draft Capture terminal. A point-of-sale device that reads information encoded in the bankcard's magnetic stripe, performs authorisation functions, stores transaction data, and batches and transmits that data to the acquirer for processing. 

Electronic Data Interchange
EDI is a system that companies use to exchange business information electronically, virtually eliminating paperwork. 

Electronic Draft Capture Terminal
Also referred to as Electronic Data Capture terminal. A point-of-sale device that reads information encoded in the bankcard's magnetic stripe, performs authorisation functions, stores transaction data, and batches and transmits that data to the acquirer for processing. The stored transactions are used to create settlement files and transaction reports. 

Electronic Financial Services
Financial services that are provided via electronic delivery channels (e.g. PCs, telephones, screen phones and ATMs). These services may be transaction and/or information oriented and may be provided by bank and non-bank providers. 

Electronic Funds Transfer
Abbreviated EFT. A system that transfers funds through electronic messages instead of by traditional means, such as cash or cheques. 

Electronic Mail 
E-mail is a system where a computer user can exchange messages with other computer users via a communications network. 

Electronic Point-of-Sale
A point-of-sale merchant with electronic equipment for pricing and recording transactions, but not necessarily incorporating functions for electronic funds transfer. See Point-of-Sale. 

Electronic Purse
Smart card stored value program. 

Embossing
Characters in relief on the front surface of a card. 

EMEA
Europe, Middle East, Africa. 

Emerging Markets
The financial markets of developing economies. 

Emoluments Attachment
Where a Plaintiff has obtained judgment, he can make application for an order deducting a percentage of the Defendant’s salary or wages for a certain time period or until the judgment debt is paid off. 

Empirical
Relying upon or gained from experiment or observation; capable of proof or verification by means of experiment or observation. 

Empirically Derived Credit System
An empirically derived credit system is a credit scoring system, which evaluates an applicant's creditworthiness primarily by assigning points (or by using a comparable basis for assigning weights) to key attributes describing the applicant and other aspects of the transaction. See Judgemental System and Pertinent Element. 

Empty Nesters
Descriptive term for families where children have already left, or are about to leave, the family home. 

Encoding
Recording electronic information on to a magnetic stripe. 

Encryption
A computerised fraud prevention technique in which data transmitted over a network is scrambled before transmission and unscrambled on receipt. See South African Fraud Prevention Service and Fraud. 

Encumbered
A property owned by one party on which a second party reserves the right to make a valid claim, e.g. a bank's holding of a home mortgage encumbers property. 

End User
In information technology, the term end user is used to distinguish the person for whom a hardware or software product is designed from the developers, installers, and servicers of the product. 

Endorse
To sign the back of a cheque in order to cash it. 

Enhancement
Appending demographic or lifestyle data to a list. See Overlayed Data and Data Enhancement. 

Enterprise Reporting
Enterprise reporting centralises report production, storage and distribution in powerful report servers, and utilises the Internet to securely distribute reports to users anywhere in the world. Enterprise reporting rose out of the need to unify information distribution within large corporations. 

Enterprise Risk and Performance Portal
A single gateway to personalised financial risk and return information needed to make timely, informed business decisions. 

Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
ERM defines a confederation of vendors who offer market risk and, frequently, credit risk management software products. An ERM solution typically comprises proprietary data extraction, transformation, and loading utilities, a normalised data model that supports a multi-purpose data warehouse, market risk and credit exposure calculation engines, and a collection of analytics and standard reports. 

Entity Basis Presentation
Net sales, operating income and assets are assigned to the geographic area where the legal entity is located. 

Entity-Relationship Modelling
Entity-relationship modelling is a logical design technique that describes the microscopic relationships among data elements and seeks to eliminate data redundancy. This discipline is beneficial to transaction processing because it makes transactions very simple and deterministic. 

Enveloping
A process whereby documents of the same type or purpose are grouped together, bound, and sent to the same destination into an electronic envelope. This is done by an electronic data interchange management software function. 

EPS
Synonym for Earnings per Share. EPS is a measure of the profitability of a company. 

Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA)
A U.S. federal law requiring lenders to give businesses and consumers equal access to credit. This is the basic legislation in the United States that addresses credit scoring and has been amended from time to time. 

Equity
The amount of loan principal paid, which represents the degree of ownership. 

Equity Bonds
Equity Bonds are comparable to unit trust vehicles, excepting certain taxation differences. Equity Bonds can be switched between certain funds without attracting tax, making them attractive for individuals wanting to actively manage their investments. 

ERM
Abbreviation for Enterprise Risk Management. ERM defines a confederation of vendors who offer market risk and, frequently, credit risk management software products. 

ERP
Abbreviation for Enterprise Resource Planning Systems. 

Error Rate
Either the number of defective transactions or the number of defective steps in a transaction. 

Escrow
A payment, usually included in mortgage payments, held by the lender to meet property taxes and insurance premiums for property securing the loan. 

Estate
The financial or physical property owned by a person whilst they are alive. On death, the estate is apportioned to the named beneficiaries. 

Estate Duty
Taxes levied on the estate of a deceased person. 

Estate Law
That area of the law governing wills, estates and the distribution of deceased estates. 

Estimator
The functionality within certain account management systems, whereby credit issuers can run estimators that will forecast the impact of implementing challenger strategies. This enables organisations to be able to forecast the impact of new strategies, both financially and operationally. 

Ethics
A standards of conduct or moral judgement. 

EU
The fifteen member-state European Union. 

Euclidean Distance
The measure of geometrical distance between two observations as measured by some function of the numerical values of the variables in the two observations. 

Euro
The currency used by the European Union (EU) member states. 

Eurobond
A medium or long-term interest-bearing bond available in the international capital markets. Eurobonds are only issued by major lenders such as large multinational companies, public bodies or governments. 

Eurocard and Eurocheque
Eurocard and Eurocheque are part of the Europay system. Both were started to offer a service that consumers could use across Europe. Eurocheque and the card that goes with it - the Eurocheque card - are now widely accepted. You can use a Eurocard to take out cash at ATMs showing the EC logo. 

Europay
Europay International SA is the European business partner of MasterCard. The company was formed after Eurocard and Eurocheque joined together in 1992. It operates the Eurocard, MasterCard, Eurocheque, Maestro and Cirrus brands in Europe. 

EVA
Acronym for Economic Value Added. This is calculated by using net income, plus adjustments for any accounting distortions, less the cost of the capital used to generate the income. 

Event Driven Programs
Database programs, which are triggered to produce output, (usually communications), based on events. For example: a birthday letter, anniversary letter, thank you letter, etc. 

Event Risk
The risk that the value of a security or other instrument will change due to an unanticipated event in the market environment or change in the regulatory environment. 

Ex-ante Provisions
Credit loss provisions that reflect the statistical likelihood that credit losses will occur before any exposure is identified as non-performing. 

Examination in Chief
The questioning of a witness by the person/attorney who has brought them to court to give evidence in support of their case. 

Exception
A policy decision not to employ the scorecard in making decisions in particular circumstances. 

Exception File
A file of account numbers for which the issuer has predetermined an authorisation response that a member accesses on-line. 

Excess
Credit card accounts where the current balance exceeds the declared limit. Also called Over-limit. 

Excess Kurtosis
Kurtosis measures the "fatness" of the tails of a distribution. Excess kurtosis means that distribution has fatter tails than a normal distribution. Fat tails means there is a higher than normal probability of big positive and negative returns realisations. See Kurtosis and Fat Tails. 

Excess Return
Return or extra reward for assuming risks. See Risk Premium. 

Exchange Coefficient
A measure of the scorecard’s power or the strength of an individual characteristic. Also see Scorecard Power. 

Exchange Rate
The rate at which one currency can be traded for another. 

Exchange Rate Mechanism
Abbreviated as ERM. 

Exclusion Score
A specific score assigned to an account, making it behaviour score exclusion. For example, new accounts, bankrupts, deceased and charge-offs all typically receive exclusion scores. 

Exclusions
Those accounts that should not be included in the development sample as either the applicant or the account behaviour patterns are atypical. Examples include deceased accounts, staff, lost and stolen. 

Execution
Carrying out/imposing the decision of the court on the Defendant. 

Executive Summary
A brief summary of the key points of a more detailed report or study. 

Executor Testamentary
This is the term for the person appointed by the testator to administer an estate and ensure that all final wishes are carried out and the terms of the will adhered to. 

Expert System
Computer software that can perform at or near the level of a human expert and also provide explanations. An expert system can be used to model financial risks, but is based on expert knowledge rather than data or statistics. 

Expert Witness
A person who is able to use his special skill, training, or expertise, in an area to assist the court in reaching a conclusion. 

Expiration Date
The date embossed on a bankcard, beyond which the card becomes invalid. 

Exploratory Data Analysis
The use of graphical and descriptive statistical techniques to learn about the structure of a data set. 

Exposure Time
The period that an account has been on the credit grantors books. It is the amount of time that the account has been exposed to the possibility of becoming delinquent. 

Extend Credit
The granting of credit in any form, including, but not limited to, (a) credit granted in addition to any existing credit or credit limit; (b) credit granted pursuant to an open-end credit plan; (c) the refinancing or other renewal of credit, including the issuance of a new credit card in place of an expiring credit card or in substitution for an existing credit card; (d) the consolidation of two or more obligations; or (e) the continuance of existing credit without any special effort to collect 

Extract
A set of data, which normally resides on the operational systems and is uploaded into a data warehouse. 

Extrapolative
This is when the predicted outcome lies outside of the range of cases encountered at the development time. This is the direct opposite to Interpolative. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

F

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

F-Distribution
Used within regression analysis to test the goodness of fit. 

Facility
A facility includes different offerings from a bank e.g. bank account or credit card facility. Most bank clients have multiple facilities. 

Facsimile Draft
A substitute document. A paper record that may be provided by an acquirer as a substitute for the sales draft. 

Factor Analysis 
A statistical procedure that seeks to explain a certain phenomenon, such as the return on a common stock, in terms of the behaviour of a set of predictive factors. 

Factor Model 
A way of decomposing the forces that influence a security's rate of return into common and firm-specific influences. 

Factoring
A sophisticated financial tool that enables credit sales to be converted into working capital or allows a third party to purchase an outstanding book of debts at a calculated value. 

Fair Credit Reporting Act
U.S federal government legislation controlling the manner and parameters of how data is reported to the credit bureau. 

False Positive
An individual that scores in the non-prime segment of a portfolio but is a good credit risk. 

Fast Clear Down
A caller who hangs up immediately when they hear a delay announcement. 

Fat Tails
A term used in statistics to describe a higher probability of the occurrence of extreme events than that prescribed by a normal distribution. The term comes from the visual representation of a distorted bell curve. The higher probabilities associated with events far from the mean cause the area under the curve far from the mean to be substantial, rather than asymptomatically disappearing. Also see Leptokurtosis and Kurtosis. 

FatMAN Schedule
A mnemonic for the standard schedule for quarterly extracts of Credit Bureau Scores for account management purposes. F = February, M = May, A = August, N = November. 

Feature
A field used to describe or predict the variations that occur in the values of a dependent variable or field. Also known as Independent Variable. 

Feature Extraction
Forming sets of linear or non-linear combinations of independent variables to use as predictors in a predictive model. The number of features extracted will be much lower than the number of independent variables available. Feature extraction can be used as an alternative to or supplement to variable selection, or to provide dimensions for visualising the data. 

Feature Trade-Off Analysis
A method for establishing respondents’ utilities based on the preferences they express for combinations of product attributes and features. Also referred to as Conjoint Analysis. 

Federal Reserve Board
The Federal Reserve Board, otherwise known as the ‘Fed’, this is the central bank of the United States. Major responsibilities include controlling the supply of money, managing public debt, issuing government bonds, and assisting with U.S. monetary policy. 

Fee Only Bads
Accounts that have become bad, solely due to fees. These accounts are typically excluded from behaviour score developments. 

Fees
Up front charges generally applied for the securing of a loan. Fees can be paid in cash or financed as part of the loan. Finance fees makes the loan balance higher and equity balance lower. Many of these fees are negotiable. 

Fiber Optic Cable
A transmission medium composed of small strands of glass, providing a path for light rays that act as a carrier. 

FIDONET
An older network of bulletin board systems. 

Fiduciary
This refers to a person who inherits the enjoyment of an asset but not the ownership of that asset. Asset ownership is usually given over to another person. 

Field
A column in a database that contains the same kind of information for each record. For example, an Age field contains the age of each person in the database. A field can be either dependent or independent. Also known as Attribute and Variable. 

File Transfer
The copying of a file from one computer to another over the computer network. 

File Transfer Protocol
A method of transferring files from one computer to another over the Internet. Also known as FTP. 

Final Liquidation
The winding up of a company, which is unable to pay its debts, by a liquidator. 

Final Score
The credit score that includes application data and all other internal and external data. 

Final Score Report
A report that relates the final score distribution, for a specific set of applications, to the accept/reject decision. This is typically produced on a monthly basis, in order to monitor the lending function. 

Final Settlement
The completion of a transaction when delivery of all components to a trade have been accomplished. 

Finance Charge
The total dollar cost of credit, including interest and other defined charges; certain fees not included in the finance charge must appear separately in the disclosure statement. 

Finance Companies
These are companies that make loans at higher rates than are available from banks or credit unions. 

Financial EDI
Electronic exchange of payments, payment information or financially related documents in standard formats between business partners. 

Financial Institution
Any organisation dealing in financial instruments or providing financial services. 

Financial Leverage 
Use of debt to increase the expected return on equity. Financial leverage is measured by the ratio of debt to debt plus equity. See Gearing. 

Financial Strategy 
Practices a firm adopts to pursue its financial objectives. 

Fine Classing
The process of defining all of the possible attributes for every characteristic and then analysing each attribute to show their good/bad distributions. Also known as a Detailed Analysis. 

Finger
A program that displays information about someone on the Net. Finger is sometimes used to distribute public keys. 

Finger Print
A hash of a public key. By reading their key fingerprints over the telephone, people who know each other’s voice can confirm their public keys. 

Finger-pointing Syndrome
All-too-frequent result of bugs in new or experimental configurations. The hardware vendor points a finger at the software. The software vendor points a finger at the hardware. All the poor users get in the finger. 

Firewall
A specially programmed computer that connects a local network to the Internet and for security reasons only allows certain types of messages through. 

Fiscal Policy
The use of government spending and taxation policies to influence the economy. 

Fiscal Surplus
A scenario where the government receives more in revenue than it spends over the course of the year. 

Fitted Odds
The odds associated with applicants or accounts at a given score or score range. 

Fixed Field
Organisation of a tape or data file in which each group of data, such as name, address, postal code, has a fixed location and length within the file. 

Fixed Interest Rate
A situation where the account holder receives a pre-determined and unchanging rate of interest, guaranteeing a calculated interest return. 

Flat File
Another name for a sequential name file. This is contrasted with a Database File, which is not flat due to the indexes. See Database. 

Flipping
Common term for frequent unnecessary refinancing of loans by lenders or brokers. 

Floor Limit
A currency amount that Visa/MasterCard has established for single transactions at specific types of merchant outlets and branches, above which authorisation is required. There are two floor limit types: Standard Floor Limit and Zero-Floor Limit. 

Fluctuating Payments
Where there is a variable or fluctuating interest rate, interest payments will vary according to the change in interest rate, as payments are re-calculated according to the new rate. 

Focus Group
A group of customers who are assembled together in a conference room to discuss a particular product. These are useful for learning what the public thinks of your product or message or company. 

Force
The after-the-fact entry of a purchase resulting from a referral message or a downtime interruption of service from a Network, which enables the merchant to enter the transaction into the EDC batch. See Offline Transaction and Electronic Draft Capture. 

Foreclosure
The legal procedure by which a lender holding a mortgage on a house is forced to sell the house to obtain repayment of a loan. 

Foreign Exchange Rate
The value of a nation’s currency in terms of another nation’s currency. 

Foreign Investment Restrictions
These are regulations designed to control the level of foreign investment activity in a particular country. Typically, restrictions and regulations are intended to maintain and protect the domestic financial system. 

Forex 
Foreign Exchange. Various instruments used to settle payments for transactions between individuals or organisations using different currencies. 

Format
The way data is organised on a disk or tape. There is no standard format and every company has its own format. 

Fortune 500 
Fortune magazine's listing of the top 500 US corporations determined by an index of 12 variables. 

Frame Relay
An emerging network access protocol designed to accommodate data applications. It is characterised by four important features: 1.High transmission speeds 2.Low network delay 3.High connectivity 4.Efficient bandwidth use. 

Franchise
An organisation that grants a license to a group of merchants to market a company's goods or services in a particular territory, and wants to provide bankcard processing to its members. 

Fraud
Deception for the purposes of obtaining credit. Also see SAFPS, Identity Theft or Encryption. 

Fraud Scoring System
A fraud scoring system uses a scorecard to identify potentially fraudulent credit card transactions and/or applications. 

Free Standing Insert
This is usually a coupon or other promotion found in a magazine or newspaper. This is the least expensive way to distribute coupons. Also known as FSI. 

Freeloaders
Credit cardholders who pay their balance off in full each month, thereby incurring no interest. See Full Payers. 

Frequency
1) Used within an RFM model, this is how often has the customer purchased in the last 3,6,12 months, or lifetime? 2) A term for how many times a person buys from you. 

Frequency Tests
The counting of variable contents, used for establishing outliers or rogue values, to better understand data in the initial stages of a development. 

Frequently Asked Questions
A term that refers to a list of questions/answers provided by companies relating to software products, Web site, etc. 

Front Office Automation Systems 
Applications and products that provide Customer Relationship Management (CRM) for your company. These systems manage the touch points that you have with customers, which means that they provide a vast amount of information about your current and potential customers. 

FSI
Acronym for Free Standing Insert. This is usually a coupon or other promotion found in a magazine or newspaper. 

FTP
Acronym for File Transfer Protocol. A method of transferring files from one computer to another over the Internet. See Anonymous FTP. 

FUI
Fake User Interface - those irritating online banner ads that have false interface elements such as pull down menus, search boxes, input fields et cetera to trick users into clicking on them. 

Fulfilment
The process of responding to a customer request with literature or products. Fulfilment is usually outsourced to a fulfilment house. 

Fulfilment
The acquirer's response to an issuer's retrieval request for a sales draft. The acquirer supplies the issuer with the original draft or a clear reproduction. The fulfilment record confirms the response and initiates reimbursement to the acquirer for fulfilling the request. 

Full Payers
Credit cardholders who pay their balance off in full each month, thereby incurring no interest. See Freeloaders. 

Full Service Processing
A relationship with a company that provides a series of services on an outsourcing basis. The company is paid fees for the services performed and does not hold the risk for Credit/Fraud losses. 

Fully Amortising
This describes a loan where the balance owed at the scheduled end of the loan is zero if all regular monthly payments are made as scheduled. 

Function
A mathematical correspondence that assigns exactly one element of one set to each element of the same or another set. 

Funding
Refers to the payment to a merchant for his submitted deposits. 

Funds Transfer System
A wire transfer network, ACH, or other communication system in which a company is a member and through which a payment order by a bank may be transmitted. Includes: SWIFT, CHIPS, MasterCard and VISA. 

Fungible Securities
Financial term. Securities which are equivalent, and of the same class and issued by the same source, and can be substituted and interchanged. 

Future-proofing
Making a Web site or technology sound enough to anticipate future development so that it won't become outdated too quickly. 

Futures
A contract for the purchase and sale of a fixed commodity, financial instrument or index at a fixed price in the future. This practice originally evolved to allow producers and consumers to hedge their risk. Speculative futures traders can easily make or lose significant amounts of money. 

Fuzzy Logic
A technique for dealing with imprecise data and problems that have many solutions rather than one, including ranges of values. It resembles human logic. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
G

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

GAIN
Gone Away Information Network. A UK non-competitive, industry-wide shared information scheme for identifying and tracing absconders who are in arrears. 

Gate
A collection of agents that share a common set of skills, such as being able to handle customer complaints. Also see Agent Group. 

Gateway
A server dedicated to providing access to a network. 

Gaussian Distribution
A function that represents the distribution of many random variables as a symmetrical bell-shaped graph. Also known as Bell Curve and Normal Distribution. 

GDP
Acronym for Gross Domestic Product. This is a measure of the production of all goods and services in a country, usually expressed as an annual total. Year-on-year changes in GDP can be used to assess the relative strength or weakness of the economy. 

Gearing 
Percentage of debt as proportion of debt plus equity. See Financial Leverage. 

General Credit
Credit extended by a financial institution that permits a customer to use their credit with a variety of merchants. Visa/MasterCard are examples of General Credit cards, as compared to private label retail cards that are only usable in a retailer's branches. 

Generated Characteristic
A characteristic created from two or more other characteristics. For example, the characteristic loan value is generated from the loan amount requested and the property value of the residence. 

Generation X
Descriptive term for post baby-boomers who are 18-29 years old. 

Generic Scorecard
A scorecard that has been developed when there is insufficient data to develop an empirical scorecard. In these instances, the scorecard will be developed based on the scorecard supplier’s experience. Also known as Judgmental Scorecard or a Start-up Scorecard. 

Genetic Algorithms
Optimisation techniques that use processes reminiscent of genetic combination, mutation, and natural selection in a design based on the concepts of natural evolution. A type of algorithm in the field of evolutionary computation. 

Geo-demographic Systems
Classification of personal data based on various demographic criteria, e.g. census, voters roll, financial or neighbourhood data. 

Geocoding
The process designating primary keys for geospatial objects and maintaining those unique identifiers in both the geospatial data layers and related tabular data subjects so that the tabular and spatial data can be related. 

Geographic Information System
Software that displays data on a computer generated map. Also known as GIS. 

Gigabyte
A billion bytes (characters). Used to measure of the size of mainframe disk storage. A typical mainframe will have 100 gigabytes or more. 

Gilts
Refers to debt issued by public entities, municipalities and national treasuries. 

Gini-Coefficient 
A statistical measure of the efficiency of a scorecard. See Lorenz Curve. 

GIS
Acronym for Geographic Information System, which is Software that displays data on a computer generated map. 

Global System for Mobile Communication
A widely used digital mobile phone standard. Also known as GSM. 

Goal Programming
An optimisation technique used in operations research, which aims to optimise several objectives simultaneously. 

Gold Card
Gold credit cards usually have higher credit limits than normal credit cards. Gold charge cards, which normally carry a higher annual fee, are often linked to an automatic overdraft. Gold cards offer a range of special "add-on" benefits like free travel insurance. 

Gone Away Information Network
Also known as GAIN. UK non-competitive, industry-wide shared information scheme for identifying and tracing absconders who are in arrears. 

Good
An applicant that the business would elect to underwrite, given the benefit of hindsight. 

Good Faith
Honesty in fact in the conduct or transaction. 

Good Faith Estimate
This document lists the estimated fees a person will have to pay to secure a loan. It also identifies who is expected to provide services and receive fees in connection with a loan, such as credit bureaus, appraisers, and closing agents. 

Good-Bad Odds
The likelihood that an applicant or an account will perform in a satisfactory manner. For example 10 to 1 means that out of 11 applicants or accounts, 10 will perform well and one will not. Also see Odds to be Good. 

Good/Bad Definition
The precise business definition of good and bad accounts. This also includes definitions of indeterminate accounts and exclusions. 

Goodness of Fit
The proportion of variation in the observed data that is explained by the estimated model. 

Goods
Accounts that a credit grantor is glad they accepted. The criteria for a good account must be objective and is usually defined by stating a minimum time on books, minimum use of the credit and a low level of maximum delinquency. Also see Satisfactory Accounts. 

Goodwill
The total cost of an acquired business, over and above the fair value of identifiable net assets. An example of goodwill would be payment for a recognised brand name. 

Government Credit
Extensions of credit made to governments or governmental subdivisions or agencies. 

Grace Period
The time between the statement date and the payment due date when no finance charge accrues, provided no previous balance exists. Once the account begins to revolve, interest accrues immediately on each additional purchase. 

Graduated Payment 
Repayment terms calling for gradual increases in the payments on a closed-end obligation. A graduated payment loan usually involves negative amortisation. 

Graphical User Interface (GUI)
A graphics-based system that features icons, pull-down menus, a keyboard, and a mouse for users to interact with a computer. 

Gremlin
A gremlin is an imaginary creature that causes trouble in devices and systems of all kinds. During the Second World War, the term was used by British airmen to refer to ongoing trouble with aircraft in spite of mechanics' best efforts. Gremlins sometimes appear today in computer systems and networks. 

Grey Band
The score band that includes the marginal applications above and below the cut-off score. Additional reviews and confirmations are often applied to these applications before reaching a final decision. 

Grid
A matrix found on a bureau credit profile designed to display the historical payment statuses in months prior to the current reporting month of the trades on the credit profile. The minimum time frame displayed is 24 months and varies with each credit bureau. 

Gross Deposit
Submitting bankcard sales and credits at the face amount. The acquirer later deducts the discount. 

Gross Domestic Product
This is a measure of the production of all goods and services in a country, usually expressed as an annual total. Year-on-year changes in GDP can be used to assess the relative strength or weakness of the economy. See GDP. 

Gross Settlement
The settlement of transactions on a trade-by-trade basis, without any aggregating or netting taking place. 

Grouping
Grouping the attributes in Fine Classing into larger groups in order to reduce the total number of attributes and to ensure that the sample count for each one is statistically significant. Also known as Coarse Classing or Operational Grouping. 

GSM
Global System for Mobile Communication, a widely used digital mobile phone standard. 

Guarantee Fund
A fund maintained by an exchange to recompense investors in the event a member firm fails to meet its obligations. 

Guaranteed Income Bond
A single premium insurance bond that pays a fixed amount of income annually and returns the original sum invested at the end of the specified period. 

Guaranteed Minimum Future Value
This is where a financial institution guarantees a minimum future value on a rental or lease agreement, and undertakes to ensure that not less than this amount will be obtained at settlement. 

Guaranteed Stock Market Bond
An investment vehicle, typically offered by insurance companies, which undertakes to provide a return based on rising share prices but with a guarantee that the investor will not lose their original capital amount in the event prices fall. 

Guarantor
A guarantor undertakes to pay debts incurred by a third party. The guarantor is liable for any shortfall or default on the borrower’s debt. 

GUI
Acronym for Graphical User Interface. A graphics-based system that features icons, pull-down menus, a keyboard, and a mouse for users to interact with a computer. See Interface. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
H

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Hacking
Unauthorised access to computer files. 

Handling Time
The number of calls received and handled by agents or peripheral equipment. Handled calls do not include calls that abandon or receive engaged signals. 

Hard Bounce E-mail
Hard bounce E-mail is permanently bounced back to the sender because the address is invalid. See Bounce E-mail or Soft Bounce E-mail. 

Hard Copy
The original document of a transaction, such as sales drafts, credit slips, etc. See Original Draft. 

Hardware
Computers, disks, tape drives, printers, and other peripherals that are plugged into computers. 

Hawthorne Effect
A psychological phenomenon whereby people (customers) act differently when they are being studied. 

Headquarters / Head Office
The main office of a retail chain through which all communication, supply orders and funding takes place. 

Hedge
An investment or position taken to reduce the risk of adverse movements or events that occur beyond the control of the investor. Normally, a hedge consists of a protecting position in a related investment. 

Heir
The person or persons that stand to benefit from an estate. 

HELOC
Acronym for ‘Home Equity Line of Credit’, which is a personal loan, with either a fixed term or revolving facility, that is secured by a second charge on the customers home. 

Help Desk
A term that generally refers to a call centre set up to handle queries about product installation, usage or problems. The term is most often used in the context of computer software and hardware support centres. 

Herstatt Risk
The Herstatt risk phenomenon can occur with parties involved in settling foreign currency transactions across different time zones. For example, Bank A may agree to deliver GBP in London at 12:00 p.m. in exchange for Bank B delivering USD in New York at 12:00 p.m. on the same day. Although the times appear the same, the New York delivery comes later due to differences in time zones, this leaves Bank A exposed. Named after Bankhaus Herstatt who defaulted on a number of currency transactions when the bank failed in 1974. 

Heteroscedasticity 
Refers to situations in which the variability of the model residuals is not constant. If heteroscedasticity is observed, it may often be removed by transforming the outcome variable using a square root or a logarithm. 

Hidden Field 
In an HTML form, a field whose name and value are not visible in the Web browser. 

Hidden Layer
A group of internal nodes inside a Neural Network, which it uses to build a model. 

High Balance
The monetary amount of credit utilised on a credit line. Also see High Credit. 

High Balance Charge
A fee assessed when the credit limit on an open-end account is exceeded. 

High Credit
The highest outstanding monetary amount ever attained by the cardholder (account holder). See High Balance. 

High Obsolescence
Goods or equipment that are constantly improved or replaced with newer versions have a high level of obsolescence. Computers and mobile telephones are good examples. See Planned Obsolescence. 

High Side Overrides
Applications that are turned down, even though their scores are at the cut-off or higher. 

Historical Reports
Reports that track call centre and agent performance over a period of time. Historical reports are generated by ACDs, third party ACD software packages, and peripherals such as VRUs and Call Detail Recording Systems. The amount of history that a system can store varies by system. 

HNW
High Net Worth individuals. 

Hold-out Sample
A small percentage of the development sample, (typically 20%), that is excluded from the scoring model development, so that it can be used to test the statistical validity of the final scorecard. Also known as Validation Sample. 

Hologram
A laser-created photograph that creates a three-dimensional image; used as an anti-counterfeiting measure on bankcards. 

Holographic Foil
The foil used to carry embossed holographic images. 

Home Banking
A method of conducting banking transactions from a home environment utilising the internet medium. Typically customers can transfer funds, pay bills and make account inquiries. 

Home Equity
The monetary value of a property held by the property owner, not including any credit amount extended. 

Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC)
A type of personal loan, with either a fixed term or revolving facility, which is secured by a second charge on the customer’s home. 

Home Improvement Loan
Credit extended to a mortgagor with the intended use being to upgrade the property. 

Host Computer
The central computer in a data communications system that provides the primary data processing functions, such as computation and database access. 

Hot Card
A card account on which excessive use is occurring often an indication that the card (or account number) has been stolen. 

House File
The organisations own file of active and former customers. 

Householding
A process by which all people and their accounts are grouped by the house that they live in so that they only receive one letter per house in a promotion. 

HTML
Abbreviation for Hypertext Mark-Up Language. The language used to write pages for the World Wide Web. This language lets the text include codes that define fonts, layout, embedded graphics, and hypertext links. 

HTTP
Known as Hypertext Transfer Protocol. The way in which World Wide Web pages are transferred over the Internet. 

HTTP Tunnelling 
A method of transferring data between clients and servers that otherwise could not exchange data because of applet security restrictions, firewalls, or other security restrictions on a network. 

HTTPS
Abbreviation for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secured. A variant of HTTP that encrypts messages for security. 

HUD
The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 

HUD Special Information Booklet
This is a booklet published by HUD that describes important terms and provides information about the home buying and mortgage loan process. 

Hyperlink
A hypertext connection that can take you to another document or another part of the same document. On the World Wide Web, hyperlinks appear as text or pictures that are highlighted. To follow a hyperlink, click the highlighted material. See Active Hyperlink and Link. 

Hypertext
A system of writing and displaying text and graphics that enables the data to be linked in multiple ways. 

Hypertext Mark-Up Language (HTML)
The language used to write pages for the World Wide Web. This language lets the text include codes that define fonts, layout, embedded graphics, and hypertext links. 

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
The way in which World Wide Web pages are transferred over the Internet. 

Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secured (HTTPS)
A variant of HTTP that encrypts messages for security. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
I

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

IBDP
Internet Bill Delivery and Payment is an Internet-based service that securely and reliably delivers statements, invoices and related information to the biller and/or designated payee. 

ICA Number
A four-digit number printed on a MasterCard credit card. This number identifies the issuing bank that assigned the card to the cardholder. 

ICC
Acronym for Integrated Circuit Card. An ICC is a card embedded with an integrated circuit chip that communicates information to a point-of-transaction terminal. 

ID Card
Card, which identifies both the bearer and the issuer. All financial transaction cards are ID cards. 

ID Number
A number assigned to a record to help to relate it to other records in the database, which have the same ID. 

Identification
The process whereby a customer identifies himself with the company that provides him with products or services. 

Identity Theft
Skilled identity thieves use a variety of methods to gain access to your personal information and then use this information without your knowledge to commit fraud or theft. See South African Fraud Prevention Service, Fraud or Lost Card Protection. 

Illiquid
An investment is considered to be illiquid if it cannot be easily converted back into cash and at a low cost. 

Immobilisation
This is the process of centrally storing share certificates and documents of title with a depositor. Electronic versions of the documents are then created, allowing for trade without having to physically move certificates, except when these are withdrawn from the depository. See Dematerialisation. 

Immunisation 
Strategy which consists in protecting a portfolio yield from the risks connected with interest rate variations. 

Implied Agreement
Where the terms of a contract or agreement are inferred from the circumstances, the way people act or the way in which things are done. Even a written agreement my have certain terms, which are implied by the circumstances. 

Imprinter
A device used by merchants to imprint embossed card information onto the sales drafts for bankcard transactions. 

In Country
The EU Member states participating in the European Monetary Union. 

Inactive Rule
A rule in a rule set that is turned off and is not evaluated. 

Inactives
Accounts that are not used very frequently or heavily by the customer. 

Inadvertent Error
A mechanical, electronic, or clerical error that a creditor demonstrates was not intentional and occurred notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid such errors. 

Inbound Telemarketing
A process whereby call centres are established to either accept telephone orders directly from customers or to collect information for future marketing purposes. This is often employed in conjunction with either print or broadcast direct response advertising campaigns. 

Incidental Credit
Extensions of consumer credit other than credit of the types offered by established businesses; for example, credit offered by a medical or dental professional or office. 

Income
The income of the customer. This needs to be specified and standardised on the application form, in order to be useful. For example, is the income Net, Gross, Weekly or Monthly? 

Income Before Taxes
This is calculated with the formula: Operating Income - Interest Expense + Interest Income +/- Other Income/Expense. 

Independence
When there is no degree of association of any type between two characteristics. In reality, there is typically some degree of association between almost any two characteristics. 

Independent Sales Organisation (ISO)
Also called a member service provider. An outside company (not MasterCard or VISA member) which is contracted by members to administer merchant and/or cardholder servicing. 

Independent Variable
The known items of information that are used to predict or estimate the values of the unknown or independent variables. Also known as Predictor Variable or Feature. 

Indeterminate Accounts
Accounts that are neither good nor bad. They may be too young to have established behaviour patterns or mildly delinquent, making them too bad to be classified as good and too good to be classified as bad. 

Index
Statistical composite that measures changes in the economy or in financial markets, often expressed in percentage changes from a base year or from the previous month. 

Industry
A distinctive group of productive or profit making enterprises. 

Industry Code
An alpha or numeric code found within the subscriber code number that is used by credit bureaus to derive the originating industry from which credit data is being reported. See Subscriber Code. 

Industry Server
A computer that facilitates electronic financial transactions and information flows. Servers function either via private (Intranet) or public (Internet) communication networks. 

Industry Type
A subset of the industry code that is used by the credit bureaus to derive the subset of the originating industry. See Subscriber Code. 

Influentials
In the business-to-business environment, this refers to executives who have the authority to make or influence a purchase. 

Information Broadcasting
Information broadcasting is the proactive delivery of value-added information to individual decision-makers via everyday devices. 

Information Odds
The statistical odds that an applicant will become a good risk. It is calculated from the information known about the applicant. 

Information Systems
These are the part of the company responsible for the central data processing operations. See IS. 

Information Value
A measure of the contribution that any characteristic is likely to make to a scorecard. See Scorecard Power. 

Informational Overrides
Occurs when the decision recommended by the score is reversed, as the credit grantor is in possession of additional information that was not included in the development of the scorecard or is specific to an individual applicant. For example, an applicant has scored well but has just been sent to prison. 

INFORMPLUS
Fair Isaac's proprietary scorecard development software. 

Infrastructure
The process of maintaining a database. For example, nightly backup, cleaning, merge/purge, de-duplication, update, etc. 

Inheritance
A benefit accruing to an individual, usually via a deceased estate. 

Initial Enumeration
This is a display of the actual counts of each of the characteristics and all of their associated attributes. See Classing. 

Initialisation
The programming of a smart card chip with data identical to that of a batch of cards. See Smart Card. 

Inquiry
A line of information indicating a request for a credit profile and naming the credit-extending agency making the request. 

Insolvency
Commercial Insolvency refers to a situation where a person/entity is unable to pay his debt as and when they fall due or discharge his liabilities. This must be distinguished from actual insolvency, where one’s liabilities exceed one’s assets. 

Insolvent
One who is unable to meet or pay his liabilities and who in consequence has surrendered his estate for the benefit of his creditors or whose estate has been compulsorily sequestrated by a creditor/creditors. 

Instalment
An account relationship where the credit obligation and the payment amounts are established for a fixed period of time. Set payments are made at agreed intervals until the debt is fulfilled. 

Institutional Investors
These are investors who participate in the market on behalf of their clients and members. Examples include banks and pension funds. 

Insufficient Experience Accounts
Credit accounts that are eliminated from the sampling process because they are too new, or have not had sufficient activity, to be categorised as good. 

Intangible Assets
These are assets of a non-physical character and include items such as copyrights, goodwill, patents, trademarks, product licences, and import and export permits. 

Integrated Circuit Card
An ICC is a card embedded with an integrated circuit chip that communicates information to a point-of-transaction terminal. 

Integrated Circuit Chip
An electronic component designed to perform processing or memory functions. 

Integrated Services Digital Network
This is a system that allows voice, data and video images to be carried over the public telephone network. See ISDN and Basic Rate Interface. 

Intellectual Capital
The term combines the idea of the intellect or brainpower with the economic concept of capital, the saving of entitled benefits so that they can be invested in producing more goods and services. Intellectual capital can include the skills and knowledge that a company has developed about its goods or services or employees whose knowledge is deemed critical to a company's continued success. 

Intelligence Agents
Computer programs able to act independently based on limited decision-making capabilities. 

Interaction
An effect on the relationships between two or more variables where the direction of the relationship (that is, positive or negative) depends on the value of another variable. For example, the relationship between diet and blood pressure changes for different age groups. 

Interactive Voice Response
This is equipment connected with an ACD that permits inbound callers to a call centre to choose their own routing of the call. See also IVR and Telephone Banking. 

Interbank Card Association Number (ICA)
A four-digit number assigned by MasterCard to a financial institution, third party processor, or other member to identify the member in transactions. 

Interchange Fee
Fees paid by the acquirer to the issuer to compensate for transaction-related costs. VISA and MasterCard establish interchange fee rates. 

Interest
A charge for borrowed money, generally a percentage of the amount borrowed. 

Interest Rate
The cost you pay to borrow money stated as a percentage rate. 

Interface
The physical and logical arrangement supporting the attachment of any device to a connector or to another device. See CGI or GUI. 

Interlocutory Order
A term applied to a proceeding or an order made during the course of a lawsuit. This can also be an order, which is not final. 

Intermediary
The term used for professional participants who work as go-betweens between issuers and investors. Examples of intermediaries include financial institutions, stock exchange firms and banks. 

Internet
A system by which all the computers in the world talk to each other. See Electronic Banking. 

Internet Bill Delivery and Payment (IBDP)
An Internet-based service that securely and reliably delivers richly formatted bills, statements, invoices, notices and associated advertising to any online consumer or business, and returns payment, remittance instructions and related information to the biller and/or designated payee. 

Internet Cheque Acceptance
A payment system that allows consumers to enter their cheque information on-line; electronic items are created and processed through the Automated Clearing House Network. 

Internet Service Provider (ISP)
A commercial provider of a connection to the Internet, i.e., AOL, CompuServe, etc. 

Interpolative
The situation where the unknown case lies within the range of values for the predictor variables used within the development of the model. This is the direct opposite to Extrapolative. 

Interval
A defined range of values. 

Interval Bad Rate
The proportion of the overall population that is ‘bad’ for a given score. 

Interval Boundaries
Breaking points in a continuous field that divide the field into intervals. 

Interval Odds
The odds applying across a score band. 

Interval Statistics
A table of scoring results that shows, for each score, the percentage of applicants that can be expected to achieve any particular score. 

Intervalised
The process of converting the values of continuous variables into ranges. For example, applicant age is a continuous variable, running from 18 – 110, intervalisation would lead to setting ranges, such as under 25, 25-30, 30-35, etc. 

Intestate
An estate that does not have a valid will when the individual dies. 

Intranet
A private version of the Internet that lets people within an organisation exchange data by using popular internet tools, such as STMP e-mail and browser. 

Introductory Rate
Loans having a lower interest rate applied at inception, which is limited for a specific period. At the end of the introductory period, the interest rate will increase. It is also known as a "teaser rate." 

Intuitional Overrides
Occurs when the credit grantor reverses the recommendation made by the score, for reasons other than policy or information. 

IS
Acronym for Information Systems, which are the part of the company responsible for the central data processing operations. 

ISDN
Acronym for Integrated Services Digital Network, which is a system that allows voice, data and video images to be carried over the public telephone network. 

ISIN
Acronym for International Securities Identification Number. This is a coding system developed by the International Standards Organisation. 

ISO
Abbreviation for the Independent Sales Organisation. Also called a member service provider. An outside company (not MasterCard or VISA member) which is contracted by members to administer merchant and/or cardholder servicing. 

ISP
Internet Service Provider. A commercial provider of a connection to the Internet, i.e., AOL, CompuServe, etc. 

Issuer
A credit grantor, normally one issuing credit cards. 

Issuing Bank
A bank that issues credit cards to cardholders. 

IV
Acronym for Information Value. A measure of the contribution that any characteristic is likely to make to a scorecard. 

IVR
Acronym for Interactive Voice Response, which is equipment connected with an ACD that permits inbound callers to a call centre to choose their own routing of the call. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

J

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Java
A new object-orientated computer program language invented by Sun Microsystems. Java programs are supposed to run without change on any modern computer. 

JSE
The Johannesburg Stock Exchange. 

Judgement
An obligation or debt created by the decree of a court. 

Judgement Debt
A sum payable under a judgment or order enforceable by a court. 

Judgemental Scorecard
A scorecard that has been developed when there is insufficient data to develop an Empirical Scorecard. In these instances, the scorecard will be developed based on the scorecard supplier’s experience. Also known as Generic Scorecard or a Start-up Scorecard. 

Judgemental System
A method of evaluating applicants that is any system for evaluating the creditworthiness of an applicant other than an empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically sound, credit scoring system. Also see Pertinent Element and Empirically Derived Credit System. 

Judgemental Weighting
Scores allocated based on ‘best guess’ rather than a statistical basis. 

Judicial Sale
A court-ordered foreclosure sale. 

Jumbo Certificates
High denomination certificates issued to consolidate and replace a number of smaller denomination certificates registered in the same name. This assists in the storage and administration of large volumes of certificates. 

Jurisdiction
The power/ability of a court to hear a particular matter. The jurisdiction of a particular court depends on the type of dispute, the amount contested, where the dispute arose and where the Defendant is situated. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
K

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

K-Nearest Neighbour
A technique that classifies each record in a data set based on a combination of the classes of the K record(s) most similar to it in a historical data set. 

K-S Statistic
Acronym for Kolmogorov-Smirnoff Statistic. 

KBS
Abbreviation for Knowledge Based Systems. A computer program that uses a knowledge base and inference procedures to solve problems. These systems do not use databases. 

KDD
Abbreviation for Knowledge Discovery. KDD involves the following steps: data preparation, exploratory data analysis, descriptive or predictive modelling, performance and value assessment, and strategy development. 

Key 
A value that is used with a crypographic algorithm to encrypt. The longer the key, the more secure the encryption. 

Key Name
In a decision tree, the value assigned to a decision key that labels every node. 

Key Value
In a decision tree, the value assigned to a decision key. Key values are listed in each node. 

Key Value Break Points
In a decision tree, a set of Key Values that lead to set of branches. 

Keyline
This is a combination of numbers and letters, usually beginning with the postal code, which is used as a rough household duplicate eliminator. Also see Match Key. 

Keypunching
The process whereby names and addresses and other data from hard copy are entered onto a computer tape or disk. It is performed on a typewriter-like keyboard. See Data Entry. 

Kill File
A file that tells your newsreader which newsgroup articles you always want to skip. 

Kitchen Sinks
Mortgage-backed securities composed of the scraps and pieces of other mortgage-backed securities. 

Kiting
A scheme where a merchant submits a sales transaction on his/her personal bankcard account(s) to obtain cash advances through their business. 

Knowledge Discovery (KDD)
Knowledge discovery involves the following steps: data preparation, exploratory data analysis, descriptive or predictive modelling, performance and value assessment, and strategy development. Use of the term knowledge discovery implies that the patterns discovered must be valid, useful, understandable, and previously unknown within the collection of data. 

Knowledge-Based Systems (KBS)
A computer program that uses a knowledge base and inference procedures to solve problems. These systems do not use databases. 

Kolmogorv-Smirnoff Statistic (K-S Statistic)
A statistic identifying the score where a scoring model is most powerful. See Scorecard Power. 

Kurtosis
Characterises relative peakedness or flatness of a given distribution compared to a normal distribution. It is the fourth moment of a distribution. Since the unconditional normal distribution has a kurtosis of 3, excess kurtosis is defined as Kx-3. See Leptokurtosis, Excess Kurtosis and Fat Tails. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
L

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Lagged Flow Rates
The product of net flows whereby the flows are taken from the same tranche of balances. Thus if the net flow from January to February is used for the current to 1-cycle flow, then the months of February to March will be used for the 1-cycle to 2-cycle flow. 

LAN
Acronym for Local Area Network, which is a system for linking several PCs into a single system with a File Server PC that keeps a central database. Some databases are located on LANs. Also see Wide Area Network. 

Laser Letter
A letter produced on a Laser Printer, which ensures that it is very clean and neat looking. It is also possible to have unlimited personalisation of the text of the letter. 

Late Charge 
A penalty which is payable in the event of a default in the payment of an instalment. This usually is calculated as a percentage of the payment amount or a minimum total amount. 

Laundering
The use of coercion or bribery of a merchant to induce the processing for payment of another merchant's transactions. These transactions are often fraudulent. See Factoring. 

LCP
Abbreviation for Lost Card Protection. This is a form of assurance, whereby the credit grantor or an associated company insures the customer for the payment of their outstanding debt, in the event that the card is lost or stolen and fraudulent charges are made prior to the cardholder notifying the card issuer to block the account. 

Lead
A prospect that has responded to a campaign is called a Lead. 

Lead Conversion Rate
The percentage of leads, which become customers. 

Lead Tracking
The process of keeping up with what has happened to a lead, (a prospect who has expressed an interest in your product or service). Lead tracking is often very difficult to perform, but is essential for financial and operational forecasting. 

Lease
A contract by which a company conveys real estate, equipment, or facilities for a specified term and for a specified rent; the act of such conveyance. 

Leased Line
A communications medium described as a dedicated telephone line reserved for the permanent use of communicating between two points. 

Least Squares
An estimation process that minimises the difference between the predicted results and the actual results. 

Leaves
The nodes on the bottom-most branches or the final nodes in a decision tree analysis. Also known as Terminal Nodes. 

Legacy System
The older versions of programs that a new program has to be able to work with. For example, Windows 2000 needs to be able to read the files created by Windows 95. 

Legal
Recognised or made effective by a court of law. 

Lender
A company or person that makes mortgage loans, such as a mortgage banker, credit union, bank, or savings and loan. Your lender's name will appear on your promissory note. 

Leptokurtosis
The property of a statistical distribution whereby more occurrences are evident farther away from the mean than would be predicted by a Normal distribution. A credit portfolio loss distribution will typically be leptokurtotic given positive obligor correlations or coarse granularity in the size / number of exposures. This means that a downside confidence interval will be further away from the mean than would be expected given the standard deviation and skewness. See Fat Tails and Kurtosis. 

Letter of Demand
An initial document indicating the Plaintiff’s claim and the consequences if the Defendant does not comply with his request. 

Letter Shop
An independent company that handles all of the details of printing and mailing letters. 

Liability
A legal obligation or duty, an amount owed. 

Liability On An Account 
Legal responsibility to repay debt. 

Liaison Team
The team of individuals from the organisation that is acquiring a scoring model. The team are responsible for communication between the model supplier and the users. 

Lien
A charge upon real or personal property for the satisfaction of some debt or duty ordinarily arising by operation of law. (2) A creditor’s claim on a debtor’s collateral. 

Life Cover
In the event of death or permanent disability to the insured person, this cover settles outstanding debts or provides the beneficiary with a fixed payment amount. This enables the bank or executor of the estate to settle any amounts owing. 

Life Style Model (LSM)
A descriptive characterisation of the population, based on factors such as residence type, product ownership and aspirations. The valid range is 1 – 8. 

Lifecycle 
The time between the issue of a smart card and its cancellation or expiration. 

Lifestyle
Lifestyle data about a neighbourhood comes from clustering. For example, if a significant number of people in a given cluster have taken a foreign trip, it is assumed that all similar households have done this. It is thus a lifestyle attribute. Included are magazines read, TV programmes watched, etc. 

Lifetime Value
The contribution to overheads and profit made by a customer during their total relationship with your company. See LTV and Acquisition Cost. 

Lift
The improvement in response from a mailing due to modelling and segmentation. This is calculated by dividing the response from a segment by the overall response, subtracting 1 and multiplying by 100. 

Line of Credit (LOC)
A form of personal loan that is revolving and can be used on multiple occasions. 

Linear
A straight-line relationship between two variables. The relationship is characterised by a slope and an intercept. 

Linear Combination
A method of generating a new variable from other variables by taking the sum of input variables, each multiplied by a constant factor. 

Linear Model
An analytical model that assumes linear relationships in variables being studied. Also known as a Scorecard Representation. 

Linear Regression
A statistical technique used to find the best-fitting linear relationship between a target (dependent) variable and its predictors (independent variables). 

Link
A hyperlink connection that can take you to another document or another part of the same document. On the Internet, links appear as text or pictures that are highlighted. To follow a link, you click the highlighted material. See Hyperlink. 

Linux
A freeware version of the UNIX operating system that runs on personal computers and is supported by a dedicated band of programmers on the Internet. Linux is part of the open source movement. 

Liquid Document
A document in which the debtor acknowledges his indebtedness in a fixed or determined sum of money. 

Liquidated Damages
This is an amount of money, which is agreed upon by the parties or is capable of prompt ascertainment. For example, where nothing more that a simple mathematical calculation must be applied to determine the exact amount of the debt. 

Liquidator
Person appointed to wind up or liquidate a company or a close corporation. 

Liquidity
The ease with which assets can be converted to cash. A large number of buyers and sellers and a high volume of trading activity creates high liquidity. 

List 
Names and addresses of individuals and/or companies having a common specific interest, characteristic or activity. 

List Broker
A specialist who makes all of the necessary arrangements for one company to use the list(s) of another company. A broker's services may include most, or all, of the following: research, selection, recommendation and subsequent evaluation. 

List Cleaning
The process of correcting and/or removing a name and/or address from a mailing list, as it is no longer correct. This term is also used in the identification and elimination of house list duplication. 

List Maintenance
Keeping a mailing list current through correcting and updating the addresses and other data. 

List Rental
The process of renting (for one time use, or other periods) a list of names of customers owned by some other organisation for an agreed upon cost per thousand. 

List Test
Part of a list, selected in order to try to determine the effectiveness of the entire list. 

Listed Company
A public company with shares listed on a recognised stock exchange. 

Loan Agreement
This is typically an agreement between a lender (bank) and a customer (debtor) for a specified loan amount to be repaid over a defined time period. In addition to a repayment schedule, the customer usually also pays interest on the loan amount. 

Loan Finance Industry
Finance loan company transactions excluding real estate account types. Terms can reflect either revolving or instalment loans (for example, Avco, HFC, American General, Trans America). 

Loan to Value
Abbreviated LTV. The loan to value ratio is the ratio between the size of the loan sought and the value of the asset. 

Loan Value
The amount financial institutions will lend on a particular item. For example, lenders will usually lend no more than the blue book value on a used car. 

LOC
Abbreviation for Line of Credit. A form of personal loan that is revolving and can be used on multiple occasions. 

Local Area Network
This is a system for linking several PCs into a single system with a File Server PC that keeps a central database. Some databases are located on LANs. 

Log of the Odds
Used for comparative purposes. This is the logarithm of the good/bad odds used to obtain a straight-line distribution of odds. 

Log-Linear Models
Models used to predict the cell frequency of occurrence in a cross-tabulation of independent variables. 

Logarithm
A mathematical tool used to transform multiplications into additions. 

Logistic Regression
A linear regression that predicts the log odds that a population member falls within a category of an ordered categorical target variable, such as “Good” or “Bad.” 

Long Term Debt
The total of all debts payable beyond the next 12 months. 

Lorenz Curve
Another name for the Gini-Coefficient. A statistical measure of the efficiency of a scorecard. 

Loss Leader
A product sold at a loss to get customers to begin buying. 

Lost Call
The caller hangs up before reaching the agent. Also called an Abandoned Call. 

Lost Card Protection (LCP)
This is a form of assurance, whereby the credit grantor or an associated company insures the customer for the payment of their outstanding debt, in the event that the card is lost or stolen and fraudulent charges are made prior to the cardholder notifying the card issuer to block the account. See Identity Theft. 

Lost or Stolen Indicator
A code utilised within each credit bureau data field that is used to indicate a lost or stolen credit card. 

Low Side Overrides
Applications that are accepted, even though the score is below the cut-off. 

Lower Cut-off
The score, determined by a credit grantor's management, at or below which applicants may be rejected based on applications score alone. Typically, the score at which applicants cannot obtain enough points from the external credit investigation to reach the cut-off score. 

Loyalty
Customer loyalty is measured by retention. A loyal customer is one who keeps buying from you. See Retention Rate. 

Loyalty Marketing
A strategic approach to developing programmes intended primarily to establish and maintain a lasting, and profitable relationship between a company and its customers. This often relies on a formalised system of rewards for frequent customers. 

Loyalty Programmes
These are rewards that encourage customers to remain as customers longer, or to purchase more. 

LSE
London Stock Exchange. 

LSM
Abbreviation for Life Style Model. A descriptive characterisation of the population, based on factors such as residence type, product ownership and aspirations. 

LTV 
Acronym for Lifetime Value, which is the contribution to overheads and profit made by a customer during their total relationship with your company. 

Lurk
To read a Usenet newsgroup, mailing list, or chat group without posting any messages. Somebody who lurks is called a lurker. 

Lynx
A character-based World Wide Web browser. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
M

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

M-Commerce
Mobile electronic commerce, i.e. online sales over cellular telephones and wireless computers. 

Macro Variable
A variable that is part of the macro programming language. The value of a macro variable is a string that remains constant until you change it. Macro variables are sometimes referred to as symbolic variables. 

Magnetic Information Character Recognition
Acronym for Magnetic Information Character Recognition. Imprinted banking numbers at the bottom of the cheque which may include routing/transit number, account number, cheque number 

Magnetic Information Character Recognition (MICR)
Imprinted banking numbers at the bottom of the cheque which may include routing/transit number, account number, cheque number. 

Magnetic Stripe
The magnetic stripe on the reverse of a credit card, containing account details such as account number and expiration date. 

Magnetic Tapes
Magnetic tape is the cheapest method to store data although retrieval is problematic since data files are stored sequentially (one after the other). Magnetic tape is typically used for data backups and to send information from one computer to another. 

Mail Shop
An independent company that specialises in preparing materials for mailing. These companies affix labels, sort for bulk rates, prepare bag tags, insert in postal bags, etc. 

Mailbot
A program that automatically sends or answers e-mail. 

Mailing List
A list of customers or prospects used to mail catalogues or sale announcements to. This is not a marketing database, as it does not provide for a two-way communication with customers. 

Mainframe
The largest computers used in business applications. These require raised floors and special air conditioning. Mainframes are recommended for large databases or applications, due to their power, input-output capability and speed, measured in MIPS. 

Management Information System (MIS)
The system that produces management reports that enable analytical, strategic and business decisions. 

MAND
Acronym for Money, Authority, Need and Desire, which are the requisites of a qualified lead. 

Manual Scoring
The scoring of each application by hand. 

Marginal Contribution
The additional contribution of a characteristic to the strength of the overall scoring model. 

Marginal Tax Rate
The top rate of income tax charged to individuals based on their last unit of earnings. 

Marital Status
The state of being unmarried, married, or separated, as defined by applicable state law. The term unmarried includes persons who are single, divorced, or widowed. 

Market Capitalisation
The total value of a company, as measuered by stock market value. See Capitalisation. 

Market Crash
The sudden fall in prices on a stock market. 

Market Depth
The extent to which business which can be done without causing major price disturbance and which reflects market liquidity. 

Market Forces
The conditions of supply and demand which operate in a free market to determine prices through the decisions of buyers and sellers, lenders and borrowers. 

Market Penetration
The percentage of buyers that a company has, as compared with the total households or businesses in the area that you have selected as your market. 

Market Rate of Interest
The cost of borrowing money by your company from banks or other institutions. In discount rate computations, this amount is usually doubled to account for risk. 

Market Research
This is statistical analysis of customer data to draw overall conclusions, as a basis for action. 

Market Risk
The potential for investors to incur losses owing to daily fluctuations and volatility in market prices. 

Market Value
The market value is the selling value of items or goods at a point in time. This value is determined by the price that buyers are willing to pay for similar goods or items. 

Marketability
Speed and ease with which a security may be bought or sold. 

Marking Myopia
A business defined purely in terms of its goods and services rather that in terms of the benefits which customers seek. 

Markoff Model
A model used for bad debt provisioning and prediction of write-off, using roll rate analysis. 

MARS
Abbreviation for Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines. An algorithm, combining regression and tree techniques, to optimise the fit of a dependent variable using the least squares method 

Masked
Data or functions that are permanently loaded into the chip on the smart card. See Smart Card. 

Mass Marketing
This is selling to everyone through mass media such as radio, TV, or newspapers, as opposed to database marketing, which is aimed at a small selected audience. 

Master File
A data set containing account or customer financial and demographic information. 

MasterCard
One of the major bankcard schemes. Previously known as MasterCharge in the US, Access in the UK and currently known as Eurocard in continental Europe. 

MasterCharge
The name formerly given to MasterCard. 

Match Code
This is an extract of the name and address used to identify a specific record. It is used in de-duping. See Keyline. 

Match Key
This is a combination of numbers and letters, usually beginning with the postal code, which is used as a rough household duplicate eliminator. See Keyline. 

Maturity Date
The date on which a policy or investment is paid to the investor and interest payments, if any, cease. See Due Date. 

Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE)
A method of parameter estimation for calculating expected cross-tabulation cell frequencies. 

Maximum Spread
Refers to the maximum distance between cumulative good and bad distributions by score. Usually expressed in percentage terms. 

MCC
A merchant classification code which identifies the merchant by type of processing, authorisation and settlement. See Merchant Category Code. 

Mean
The arithmetic average of a population or a sample of observations. Also known as the Arithmetic Average. 

Media
Communications channels that convey messages, such as radio, TV, newspapers, magazines and direct mail. 

Megabyte
A million bytes. Disks are rated in megabytes. 

Member Bank
A financial institution that is an actual member of Visa and MasterCard and responsible for settling transactions with Visa/MasterCard-issuing banks, resolving chargeback issues, and adhering to Visa/MasterCard regulations. Also see Processor. 

Memory
Computer term. The amount of information that a computer can hold whilst operating. With expanded memory, the computer works faster and can process highly complex programs. 

Memory Card
Smart card that stores and retrieves serial "streams" of data that are sent to or received from the semiconductor chip. 

Merchant
A business or organisation that accepts credit cards as payment products or services provided. Each merchant is assigned a unique identification known as a Merchant ID Number. 

Merchant Account Initiation 
A full-cycle credit management system. It statistically credits scores and rates new merchant applications and tracks accounts from the date of commencement of the contract to its achievement. It includes an on-going profitability analysis, and retains a paperless credit file online. 

Merchant Acquirer
A member that has entered into an agreement with a merchant to accept deposits generated by bankcard transactions; also called the acquirer or acquiring bank. 

Merchant Agreement
The written contract between merchant and acquirer which details their respective rights, responsibilities, and warranties. 

Merchant Category Code
A merchant classification code which identifies the merchant by type of processing, authorisation and settlement. 

Merchant Fraud
The act of submitting sales drafts which are not the result of legitimate sales for the purpose of defrauding the services, the client bank, or individual cardholders. Fraud includes knowingly accepting lost, stolen, or counterfeit credit cards. 

Merchant Number
A number that numerically identifies each merchant to the merchant processor for accounting and billing purposes. 

Merchant Outlet
The physical premises of the merchant at which a transaction is consummated. 

Merchant Sales Agreement
The written contractual agreement between a merchant and a clearing/funding member bank. This agreement contains their respective rights, duties, and warranties with respect to the acceptance of credit, debit, or charge cards and payment system processing. 

Merchant Service Charge
The discount rate or other fees assessed by the acquirer. 

Merchant Settlement Amount
The net Rand amount for each business day of card transactions processed, less charge backs debited to the merchants and other debits or credits to the merchants. 

Merchant Station Plate
A metal embossed plate to be attached to the imprinter machine and used for imprinting sales slips and batch headers/summaries. Embossed data includes merchant name, account number, city, and may include service entitlement numbers or current account number. 

Merge/Purge
A software system used to merge many different input tapes in differing formats and put them into a common format for a mailing. Merge/Purge detects duplicates. 

Metadata
All of the information in the data warehouse environment that is not the actual data itself. Metadata is often divided between process-related "back room" metadata, which guides the extraction, cleaning, and loading process, and descriptive "front room" metadata that helps query tools and report writers function smoothly. 

MICR
Abbreviation for Magnetic Information Character Recognition. Imprinted banking numbers at the bottom of the cheque which may include routing/transit number, account number, cheque number. 

Micro-Computer
This is another name for a Personal Computer. 

Microchips
These are the ‘brains’ powering computer systems with chip processing speeds varying according to age and make. Also known as Chips. 

Microprocessor Card
Contains a microprocessor chip with a microcode that defines a command structure, a data file structure and a security structure in the card. 

Migration
The process of moving a database from one platform (such as an external service bureau) to another (such as an in-house mainframe). When an outsourcing decision is made, companies should always look ahead to ensure that you they can migrate at some later date. 

Millions of Instructions Per Second (MIPS)
This is the measurement of the relative speed of a mainframe computer. 

Mini
These are computers that are smaller than Mainframe computers. They may also need raised floors and air conditioning. They are less expensive than Mainframes, but generally do not have the power or input-output capability to manage a large database. 

Minimum Acceptable Score
The minimum score that applicants must achieve in order to be accepted. 

Minimum Balance
The amount of money that must be maintained in an account at all times. 

MIPS
Acronym for Millions of Instructions Per Second. This is the measurement of the relative speed of a mainframe computer. 

MIS
Abbreviation for Management Information System. The system that produces management reports that enable analytical, strategic and business decisions. 

Misclassification Cost
The cost of misclassifying a class “j” object as a class “i” object. The costs may vary across object classes, e.g., the cost of misclassifying a “Bad” as a “Good” may be higher than the reverse. 

Missing Data
The situation where variables may have missing values, due to illegibility, lost or never recorded data. 

Missing Values
Values that are absent from a field. 

MLE
Abbreviation for Maximum Likelihood Estimation. A method of parameter estimation for calculating expected cross-tabulation cell frequencies. 

Model
Short for Predictive Model, a structure and process for predicting the values of specified variables in a data set. 

Model Integration Table
A lookup table relating the outputs of a linear or non-linear discriminant analysis to the probabilities of class membership. Also known as a Probability Table. 

Model Risk
The risk of loss due to weaknesses in the financial model/s being used by a business. 

Modelling
A statistical technique to determine which data elements in a database can be used to explain and predict customer behaviour. 

Modem
A device permitting a PC or terminal to send information over a telephone line. A modem must be present at both ends of the telephone line for the communication to work. 

Modulus-10
An algorithm used to generate random numbers, such as account numbers. 

Monetary Value
Used within an RFM model, this is how much has the customer spent in the last 3, 6, 12 months or lifetime? 

Money Laundering
The illegal process of passing illicit funds through an account, (or several accounts), to disguise the original source of the funds. 

Money Transfers
The movement of funds or securities from one participant to another. This can include the physical conveyance of money or it can be an accounting entry. 

Monitoring
The business function of producing regular management reports, in order to control the scorecards and lending functions. Examples of standard reports include: Population Stability Report, Characteristic Analysis Report, Override Analysis Report, Final Score Report, Dynamic Delinquency Reports. Also known as Tracking. 

Monotonic
Designating sequences whose successive members either consistently increase or decrease but do not oscillate in relative value. 

Monte Carlo Simulation
A technique for approximating a probability distribution by generating uniformly distributed pseudo random numbers and transforming these into the required set of random numbers. 

Month-end Report
A report that is produced at month-end, rather than at cycle billing. 

Monthly Payment
The amount of money due on a monthly basis to satisfy a loan obligation. An instalment account will show a calculated amount relative to the original amount divided by the terms, a revolving account will display an estimated amount. Exception cases are zeros = not on file, 9s = maximum value. 

Monthly Rebate
A monthly rebate is the amount by which a loan agreement can be reduced on a monthly basis, provided certain conditions are met. 

Months Open
The number of months that an account has been open, calculated from the date it was opened. 

Months Reported
The number of months that an account has been reported by a creditor. 

Months Status
The number of months that a specific status has been reported on an account. 

Mortgage
A mortgage is a promise whereby property is used as security for a loan. In many US states, the mortgage document is called a "deed of trust." 

Mortgage Banker
A lender, other than a bank, credit union, or savings and loan, that specializes in making residential mortgage loans. 

Mortgage Loan
A loan secured by a mortgage on your home. 

Moving Average
An average showing trends for the latest interval. Often used in the measurement of security or commodity prices constructed on a period as short as a few days or as long as several years. 

Multi Co-Linearity
The situation where some of the independent variables are highly correlated. 

Multi-Application Card
A smart card that can accommodate more than one application while maintaining separate security conditions. 

Multi-Buyer
A person who crops up on two or more independent rented lists. Multi-Buyers usually respond better to a direct offer than other buyers. 

Multi-Dimensional
The situation where observations have multiple variables, whose values help to distinguish one observation from another. Also known as Multivariate. 

Multilevel
The ability to protect information with different levels of sensitivity and different access permission rules on the same computer system. 

Multiple Linear Regression
A form of regression whereby the formula is linear and contains many variables in addition to the dependent variable. 

Multiple R
A measure of the effectiveness of a regression model. Binary variables with a value 1 or 0 are used to represent the coarse classed attributes of the scorecard variables. 

Multiple Regression
A statistical technique used in modelling whereby you develop a formula, which explains the relationship between several variables in explaining customer behaviour. 

Multiple Regression Correlation Coefficient
The multiple regression correlation coefficient is a measure of the proportion of variability explained by, or due to the regression (linear relationship) in a sample of paired data. It is a number between zero and one and a value close to zero suggests a poor model. 

Multivariate
The situation where observations have multiple variables, whose values help to distinguish one observation from another. Also known as Multi-Dimensional. 

Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS)
An algorithm, combining regression and tree techniques, to optimise the fit of a dependent variable using the least squares method. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
N

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

NCOA
Abbreviation for National Change of Address, a US Postal Service system through which select national service bureaus have exclusive access to the change of address forms lodged by persons or businesses who have moved. 

Nearest Neighbour
K-nearest neighbour technique, a technique that classifies each record in a data set based on a combination of the classes of the K record(s) most similar to it in an historical data set. 

Negative Amortisation 
Repayment schedule calling for periodic payments that are insufficient to fully amortise the loan. Earned but unpaid interest is added to the principal, increasing the debt. Eventually, payments must be rescheduled to fully pay off the debt. 

Negative Factor or Value
When considering elderly applicants, utilising a factor, value, or weight that is less favourable than the creditor’s experience warrants or is less favourable than the factor, value, or weight assigned to the class of applicants that are not classified as elderly and are most favoured by a creditor on the basis of age. 

Negative File
A collection of records which contain all accounts on which charge privileges have been revoked and/or require a voice authorisation. 

Negative Re-pricing
The process of negatively changing the terms and conditions of the customers account, so that the customer now has worse terms and conditions. This is often done to reflect the customer’s higher risk and is an effective risk-based pricing strategy. 

Negative Shift
A move in the population towards a higher risk portfolio. 

Net Asset Value 
Value of a corporation or of a corporate asset according to accounting records, which is determined by dividing the number of issued shares into a company's net assets. 

Net Income
The amount remaining after all costs, expenses, income taxes and extraordinary items are subtracted from net sales. 

Net Interest Margin
This equates to net interest income as a percentage of average total assets. Net interest income is the difference between interest income and interest expense. 

Net Names
The actual names used in a mailing, after removing the duplicates and matches to your customer list. In some cases, you can rent names on a net-name basis. 

Net Payment
Payment to the merchant for sales drafts less credits and less the appropriate discount fee. 

Net Payoff
The amount owed on a loan, excluding prepaid interest and insurance premiums. 

Net Revenue
Discount income less interchange expense. 

Net Settlement
The settlement, through an actual transfer of funds, of the net effect of a series of financial transactions involving customers of two or more banks. 

Net Worth
Defined as total assets minus total liabilities. 

Netlag
Slang for the condition that occurs on the Web when heavy traffic slows down server response time. 

Network
Computers that are connected together. 

Network Operator
This is any company, which runs a public telecommunications network. See NO. 

Network Service Provider
A terminal-centred system that allows the merchant to obtain authorisation and/or data captured through the network. A third party vendor who provides authorisation network services such as Banknetand VISANet. 

Neural Network (NN)
Non-linear predictive models that learn both structure and parameter values through training, which also superficially resemble biological neural networks in structure. See Hidden Layer. 

Neural-fuzzy Systems
Combinations of neural networks with expert fuzzy systems. 

Neutral Status
Status that is considered neither open, closed, nor paid. 

Never Delinquent
An account that has never been past due for payments. 

New Account
Accounts with an open or reported date on the credit report less than 24 months. 

Newsreader
A program that lets you read and reply to the messages in newsgroups. 

Next Step
The designated next action in an execution path. 

Niche Market
A way of finding a special product that appealed to only one group, and selling that product very profitably only to that group. 

Nisi (Rule Nisi)
A decree, order or rule of court that will not be made absolute unless the person affected by it fails to show why it should not take effect within a certain period of time. 

Nixie
A direct mail letter, which has been returned to the sender because the address was wrong. Also, any undelivered pieces of mail. Nixies are used to correct a list. 

NN
Abbreviation for Neural Network. Non-linear predictive models that learn both structure and parameter values through training, which also superficially resemble biological neural networks in structure. See Hidden Layer. 

NO
Abbreviation for Network Operator. This is any company, which runs a public telecommunications network. 

No Information
The attribute assigned to a characteristic when the applicant failed to provide information for a particular characteristic or the characteristic was not prompted for on the application. 

Node
A location defined by branch attributes on a tree. The root node is the initial node and all branches originate from it. The nodes on the bottom-most branches of the tree are the terminal nodes or leaves. 

Nominal Variable
A variable that has values which are categorical and in no implied order. See Categorical. 

Non Delivery Risk 
A processed and cleared transaction charged to a cardholder's account for full or partial payment for a product/service in advance of delivery/receipt of the product/service to the cardholder. 

Non Face-to-Face Transaction
Any transaction where the card is not presented, such as a mail order purchase. 

Non-bank
A financial institution not offering retail banking services. 

Non-linear
A relationship between two variables that varies more than just linearly over different regions of data. 

Non-linear Model
An analytical model that does not assume linear relationships associated with the variables being studied. 

Non-linear Regression
Non-linear regression aims to describe the relationship between a response variable and one or more explanatory variables in a non-linear fashion. 

Non-parametric Method
A method which makes no assumptions regarding the type of distribution from which the data was sourced. 

Non-regular Payments
These are payments made on an irregular basis, payment amounts also tend to vary. Typically, customers with irregular income such as farmers would make use this type of payment scheme. 

Non-repudiation 
Guarantee that a sender cannot falsely deny having sent a message. Non-repudiation is an essential role of cryptography systems. 

Non-respondees
People who do not respond to unsolicited mail shots. This is used in pre-screening scorecards. 

Non-sufficient Funds (NSF)
The returned payment reason code for when a customer’s cheque payment is returned for lack of funds in their current account. 

Normal Distribution
A function that represents the distribution of many random variables as a symmetrical bell-shaped graph. Also known as Bell Curve and Gaussian Distribution. 

Notice Deposit Account
A special account into which funds are deposited for a specific period, for example, 32 days. See Deposit Account. 

Notice of Motion
Usually the first document filed at court and served on a Respondent for purposes of commencing application proceedings. This document sets out the Applicant’s claim. 

Notice of Right to Cancel
Under US federal law, you may be permitted to cancel or "rescind" a mortgage loan within a specified time, generally three days, after you have signed the loan documents. The lender is required to give the borrower notice in writing of this right to cancel or rescind and the deadline to cancel. The right applies to refinancing transactions, second mortgage loans, or other mortgage loans that do not involve the purchase of a home. 

Notional 
Probable but not known exactly or not quantifiable. 

NSF
Abbreviation for Non Sufficient Funds. The returned payment reason code for when a customer’s cheque payment is returned for lack of funds in their current account. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
O

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Oblige
One to whom another is bound by contract or legal agreement. 

Obligor
One who binds oneself to another by contract or legal agreement. 

Observation
Refers to the information contained in the database that comprises an entry for each field in the database. For example, an employee database contains a record for each employee. Also known as Case, Record, and Row. 

Observation Date
The date predictive characteristics are observed. 

Observation Exclusions
Accounts that are excluded from the observation sample of a behaviour score development. 

Observation Point
The point that predictive characteristics are observed. 

Occupation
The occupation of the credit applicant. 

Occupation Dictionary
A dictionary listing all of the occupations that are used as attributes within the scoring model. 

Odds
The statistical probability of a positive outcome arising from any financial risk. For example, a good account from a home loan, or minimal claims on an insurance policy. 

Odds to be Good
The likelihood that an applicant or an account will perform in a satisfactory manner. For example 10 to 1 means that out of 11 applicants or accounts, 10 will perform well and one will not. Also known as Good/Bad Odds. 

Off Balance Sheet Financing
This refers to money borrowed or assets purchased in such a way that this is not reflected on the company balance sheet. The accepted methods for this type of financing are controlled by legislation as well as generally accepted accounting standards. 

Off the Shelf
Hardware or software programs that are commercially available and ready for use ‘as is’. 

Off-line
An off-line database is kept on magnetic tape or cartridge. It is not possible to call up a record instantly from an off-line database. 

Off-line Debit
Debit card transactions using a VISA/MasterCard branded card that looks like a credit card. The transaction must adhere to VISA/MasterCard debit regulations and the merchant is required to pay a discount fee. 

Off-line Transaction
The after-the-fact entry of a purchase resulting from a referral ('call Authorisation Centre') message or a downtime interruption of service from a Network which enables the merchant to enter (as a force/post authorisation) the transaction and the approval code into the EDC batch. Also known as Force. 

Off-market Trade
A trade or deal concluded by trading parties outside of a stock exchange system. 

Off-market Transfer
A transfer of shares or security from one party to another, not arising from a trade on a stock market. 

Off-shore Trade
This refers to cross-border trade. It is a trade between entities based within a country and entities based outside that country. 

Offer
The product or service made available to a target market. The offer is sometimes only made available for a limited time period. 

Offshore Funds
Funds based outside the tax system of the country in which the investor lives. 

OLAP
Abbreviation for Online Analytical Processing. Software that provides users with the ability to examine data within a multidimensional view. A term meant to contrast with OLTP. 

OLTP
Abbreviation for Online Transaction Processing. The original description for all activities and systems associated with entering data reliably into a database. Most frequently used with reference to relational databases, although OLTP can be used generically to describe any transaction processing environment. 

On Balance Sheet Financing
A more conventional method for financing assets or incurring debts. All borrowed funds, loans and purchases are recorded and reflected in the company balance sheet. 

On-line
A transaction on a terminal permanently connected to a network that is on-line to the card account. 

On-line Analytical Processing (OLAP)
Software that provides users with the ability to examine data within a multidimensional view. A term meant to contrast with OLTP. 

On-line Authorisation
An authorisation for a transaction that is made in real time, rather than in batch mode. 

On-line Financial Transaction
A financial transaction that is made in real time, rather than in batch mode. 

On-line Transaction Processing (OLTP)
The original description for all activities and systems associated with entering data reliably into a database. Most frequently used with reference to relational databases, although OLTP can be used generically to describe any transaction processing environment. 

On-market Trade
Trades conducted on a recognised stock exchange and subject to the rules and regulations of that exchange. 

On-pack Offers
These are Communications with customers, which make an offer on the package that they purchase. 

On-shore Trade
Trade occurring between domestic entities within the boundaries of the country. 

On-Us Transaction
A transaction that is made by the issuer’s customer or merchant. 

Onus
A duty cast upon a litigant to start proceedings in court or satisfy the court that he is entitled to succeed on his claim or defence. 

Open
An account that is available for debit/credit activities. 

Open Profiling Standard (OPS)
A proposed standard to allow World Wide Web users to control how much personal information they share with Web sites and allow Web sites to personalise their pages for the individual user. 

Open Ticket
A customer contact (transaction) that has not yet been completed or resolved (closed). 

Open To Buy (OTB)
The amount of available credit that a customer has to spend. This is calculated by subtracting the current balance plus any outstanding authorisations from the credit limit. 

Open-end Credit or Open-end Loan
Credit extended under a plan under which a creditor may permit an applicant to make purchases or obtain loans from time to time directly from the creditor or indirectly by use of a credit card, cheque, or other device. 

Opened-loop Decision Support System
Traditional decision support systems are "open-loop" in that they present data to analysts and then require some action to be taken. See Closed-loop Decision Support System. 

Operating Contribution
Operating income arising from goodwill, amortisation and the effect of any restructuring actions, as well as items deemed unusual. 

Operating Income
This is income derived from operations prior to the cost of net interest, miscellaneous income items or expenses. 

Operating Margin
This is defined as net sales divided into operating costs. 

Operating Procedures
The current manual prepared by an acquiring processor, containing operational procedures, instructions and other directives relating to card transactions. 

Operating Risk
The sum total of cumulative chargeback risk exposure plus the cumulative credit risk exposure with a given merchant. 

Operating Rules
Rules and business practices designed to increase consistency and interoperability among the various financial service providers that will interact with each other and end-users. Examples of operating rules include: authorisation procedures, settlement timing requirements, audit and accounting rules, and credit limits. 

Operational Grouping
The re-classification of the attributes defined in the Detailed Analysis into broader, more practical and statistically significant groups. Also known as Coarse Classing or Grouping. 

Operational Risk
The risk of loss due to system breakdowns, employee fraud or misconduct, errors in models or natural or man-made catastrophes, among other risks. It may also include the risk of loss due to the incomplete or incorrect documentation of trades. Operational risk may be defined by what it does not include: market risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk. 

Operations Research
The expression of various business situations in mathematical terms and the subsequent application of mathematical methods to make these situations more efficient, less costly, more profitable or any combination of these improvements. 

OPS
Abbreviation for Open Profiling Standard. A proposed standard to allow World Wide Web users to control how much personal information they share with Web sites and allow Web sites to personalise their pages for the individual user. 

Optical Card
Card with information recorded on an optical memory stripe, similar to compact disks. 

Options
An option is a contractual arrangement creating the right to sell or buy at a specified price for a certain period. Unlike futures, the trader is not obliged to take delivery of an option. 

Order
Stock exchange term indicating an offer to sell, or a bid to buy, an agreed quantity of shares at a pre-determined price. 

Order of Court
An instruction by a Judge directing either party to do something or to refrain from doing something. 

Ordinal Variable
A variable that is categorical and whose values are ordered but without any implied distance between the values. For example, many survey responses are ordinal, whereby an answer can be between 1 and 5, but this does not imply that 5 is five times better than 1. 

Original Draft
The actual bank copy of the form used in the transaction. Also referred to as the 'Hard Copy.' 

Originator
A financial institution that initiates a wire transfer or automated clearing house (ACH) payment. 

OTB
Abbreviation for Open To Buy. The amount of available credit that a customer has to spend. This is calculated by subtracting the current balance plus any outstanding authorisations from the credit limit. 

Out Currency
The currency of a European Union Member State which has not converted to the Euro. 

Outbound Telemarketing
This is the process of employing telephone sales representatives to call customers or prospects, with the intention of either selling a product or service or obtaining a lead. 

Outcome
The scenario that suggests a specific action be taken when a branch corresponds to the state of the application or account management data. The actual data returned to the calling system when an outcome is reached is defined in the scenario record. 

Outcome Period
The period between the application window and the good/bad definition being set. 

Outlet
A trader which accepts credit or debit cards as a mechanism of payment are referred to as an outlet or merchant. 

Outlier
A data item whose value falls outside the bounds enclosing most of the other corresponding values in the sample. It may indicate anomalous data. 

Outsourcing
The process of having various database functions handled by external service bureaus. Typically, functions are outsourced to direct response agencies, computer service bureaus, data entry houses, mailshops, fulfilment houses and telemarketing companies. 

Outstanding
The balance of a loan or credit amount not yet repaid is referred to as the outstanding amount. 

Over-fitting
Occurs when spurious relationships are identified, which are not part of the underlying structure. This may occur when due to a small sample size, a relationship is identified in the data, which is not representative of the population to which the model will be applied. Also known as Sample Tuning. 

Over-limit
The UK English term for an account exceeding its credit limit. Also known as Excess. 

Overall Odds
The product of the Information Odds and the Population Odds. Also known as Total Odds. 

Overdraft
A pre-arranged facility allowing a current account customer to write cheques or make debit card transactions in excess of their funds in the current account. 

Overlayed Data
A process whereby a customer file has data appended to it (such as age, income, home value) from some external data file. See Enhancement and Data Enhancement. 

Overlays
External data, which can be merged with an existing database to create better, targeted marketing efforts. Though virtually any external data can be used, typical data overlays include census and tax filer information, which can serve to create a clearer picture of the individuals on a database. See Appended Data. 

Overline
The US English term for an account exceeding its credit limit/credit line. 

Override
Occurs when the decision recommended by the credit score is overridden. There are three types of overrides: informational, policy and intuitional. 

Override Analysis
A statistical report that relates the number of applications that have been overridden in a particular period, to score bands. This should be produced on a weekly or monthly basis as it assists in controlling the lending function. 

Override Rate
The percentage of all applicants where the decision recommended by the credit score has been overridden. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
P

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Package
The envelope, container or look of a company’s outgoing direct mail piece. 

Package Insert
Any promotional piece included in a product shipment. It may be for different products from the same company or for products and services of other companies. 

Package Test
A test, of part, or all of the elements of one mailing piece against another. 

Packet
A chunk of information sent over a network. Each packet contains the address that it's going to and the address from which it came. 

Paid
An account that is paid up to date or paid in full. 

Paired Sample t-test
A paired sample t-test is used to determine whether there is a significant difference between the average values of the same measurement made under two different conditions. Both measurements are made on each unit in a sample, and the test is based on the paired differences between these two values. The usual null hypothesis is that the difference in the mean values is zero. 

Paper
Sales slips, credit slips, cash disbursement slips, and other obligations indicating use of a card or a card account. 

Paper / Voice
The oldest, yet most familiar bankcard process mode whereby a merchant must call the authorisation centre for approval of a credit card transaction and then submit their sales slips for processing. 

Parcelling
A method that identifies groups of Accepts and Rejects which appear similar. 

Parent Node
In a decision tree, a node that has branches below it (child nodes) other than outcome nodes. See Node and Child Node. 

Participation Mortgage Bond
The interest given on a piece of land, in writing, guaranteeing the payment of the debt or the execution of an action. The bond automatically becomes invalid when the debt is paid or the action is executed. 

Particulars of Claim
Pleadings, which set out the allegations of the Plaintiff against the Defendant and the relief which is sought. 

Partitioning
The act of separating a database into training, test, and validation subsets. There may be more than three partitions because there may be many validation sets or many test sets. 

Password Reminder Phrase
A sentence giving the user a hint as to what their (forgotten) password is. 

Pay-per-lead
A form of advertising in which the advertiser pays for each sales lead generated from a site. 

Pay-per-sale
The customary way to pay Web sites that participate in an affiliate program, using a percentage of the value of the transaction. 

Pay-per-view
The most usual form of paying for advertisements on Web sites. Advertisers pay a small fee for each visitor who views a Web page on which their advertisement is displayed. 

Payment Profile
The payment history of an account. 

Payment Projection Score (PPS)
A specific type of behaviour score that predicts the risk of highly delinquent accounts paying back a portion of the outstanding balance. 

Payment Service Provider
An organisation which is authorised by acquirers and which will have the equipment and expertise to supply to merchants who do not want to invest in their own secure servers. 

Payment System
A set of instructions and procedures used for the transfer of ownership and settlement of obligations arising from the exchange of goods and services. 

PC
Abbreviation for Personal Computer, which is a desktop workstation used for hundreds of applications. These can be used to access databases resident on a mainframe. 

PDF File
A method for distributing formatted documents over the Internet requiring a special reader program. 

PDV
Abbreviation for Present Discounted Value, which is a financial process for calculating the present value of an amount of money to be received or paid in the future. The formula is PDV = V / (1 + i)n where V = future value, i = market rate of interest, n = time in years. 

Pearson's Product Moment Correlation Coefficient
Pearson's product moment correlation coefficient, usually denoted by r, is one example of a correlation coefficient. It is a measure of the linear association between two variables that have been measured on interval or ratio scales, such as the relationship between height in inches and weight in pounds. 

Penetration Ratio
This is the number of an organisation’s customers as a percentage of the universe that defines your customer's type of household or business. "We had a penetration ratio in that postal code of 8%." 

Percent Allocation
The process of routing each call to the optimum destination according to real-time conditions. See Call by Call Routing. 

Performance Assessment
A method of measuring the predictive accuracy of model. 

Performance Date
The date that performance data is observed. 

Performance Definition
The definition of what constitutes Good, Bad and Indeterminate accounts. 

Performance Exclusions
Accounts that are excluded from the performance sample. 

Performance Group
A categorisation of accounts. Typically accounts are categorised into the following groups: rejects, goods, bads, indeterminates and insufficient experience. 

Performance Period
The period of time for which the Performance Definition is applicable. For example, in Behaviour Scoring, the performance period is typically 6 months. 

Performance Scoring
A scoring system used to estimate the probability that an existing account will go bad. It is developed using account behaviour data, such as payment and purchase activity and is typically calculated on a monthly basis. Also known as Behaviour Scoring. 

Periodic Rate
The Annual Percentage Rate (APR) divided by the days, weeks, or months in a year. An APR of 18 percent has a monthly periodic rate of 1.5 percent and a daily periodic rate of 0.0493 percent. 

Permutation
A re-engagement or shuffling of an ordered collection of objects. 

Person
A natural person, corporation, government or governmental subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association. 

Personal Computer
This is a desktop workstation used for hundreds of applications. These can be used to access databases resident on a mainframe. See PC and Micro-computer. 

Personal Consumption Spending
The amount which households collectively spend on goods and services. 

Personal Disposable Income
Personal income less personal income tax payments. Also called “take-home pay.” 

Personal Identification Number (PIN)
A personal identification alpha or numeric code that identifies a cardholder in an authorisation request. 

Personal Savings
The difference between personal disposable income and personal consumption spending. 

Personalisation
The process of including personal references in an outgoing mail piece. For example, ‘Thank you for your order of Feb. 23 for six boxes of fudge, Mrs. Williams.’ With laser letters, personalisation does not cost more than non-personalised letters. 

Pertinent Element
Any information in a judgmental system of evaluating applicants that a creditor obtains about applicants and considers that has a demonstrable relationship to a determination of creditworthiness. See Judgmental System and Empirically Derived Credit System. 

Photocards
Plastic cards which have photos of the cardholder and his or her signature laser printed on the back as a fraud prevention mechanism. 

PIC Solutions
A unique, specialist risk management solutions company, providing Project management, Integration services and Consulting solutions to a wide range of clients. 

Pick-up Card
An issuer's response to an authorisation request stipulating that the card be confiscated by the merchant and returned to the issuer. 

Piggyback
An offer that rides along with another offer. See Ride-Along. 

PIN
Personal Identification Number. The confidential individual number or code used by a cardholder to authenticate card ownership for ATM or POS terminal transactions. 

PIN Authorisation Request
A procedure enabling the issuer to validate cardholder identity by comparing the PIN to the account numbers. 

Pivoting
The changing of the dimensional orientation of a report or page display. 

Planned Obsolescence
A marketing strategy where companies deliberately produce items with the intention of phasing them out. See High Obsolescence. 

Pledge
The use of securities or shares as collateral in a financial transaction. The pledge can either be done with electronic or physical documents. 

Point of Sale (POS)
The location of a merchant where the customer makes a purchase. 

Point Scoring
An objective methodology widely used by credit grantors to make credit decisions. Also known as Credit Scoring. 

Point-of-Sale (POS) Payment System
Electronic equipment used in a point-of-sale payment system that automatically dials a designated telephone number to obtain authorisation for sales by an electronic transfer of funds for cash, cheques, or drafts in the purchase of retail goods and services. See Dial-up Terminal, Draft Capture and Electronic Data Capture Terminal. 

Points
A fee charged by the lender as additional compensation for making the loan. One "point" is equal to 1% of the principal amount of the loan. 

Population Splits
The point at which multiple scorecards are required due to the different behaviour of applicants with specific attributes. For example, applicants over and under age 20. 

Port
Generally, port refers to the hardware through which computer data is transmitted; the plugs on the back of computers are ports. On the Internet, port often refers to a particular application. For instance, one might telnet to a particular port on a particular host. The port is actually an application. 

Portfolio Bad Rate
The overall bad rate for the portfolio above, and including, a specific score. The overall portfolio bad rate is that of the lowest score. 

Portfolio Credit Risk Model
A model for calculating economic capital due to credit risk. 

POS
Known as Point-of-Sale. The location of a merchant where the customer makes a purchase. 

Positive File
A file listing the current balance and available credit for each active cardholder account. PIN and other cardholder information may also be included. 

Positive Shift
A movement in the population towards a lower risk portfolio. 

Postal Pre-sort 
Sorting outgoing letters designed to take advantage of postal discounts. 

Posting
The process of recording debits and credits to the cardholder's credit or deposit account. 

Potential Credit Exposure
Credit exposure that may arise in the future as a result of changes in underlying prices and rates that affect the value of a particular transaction. Potential exposure calculations recognise the probability distribution of underlying financial prices. Popular measures of potential exposure include maximum, peak, expected, and average exposure. 

PPS
Abbreviation for Payment Projection Score. A specific type of behaviour score that predicts the risk of highly delinquent accounts paying back a portion of the outstanding balance. 

Pre-screen Scoring
The process of using a pre-screen scorecard to streamline a mailing list before sending a mail shot. Also known as Solicitation Scoring. 

Predictive Modelling
The extraction of predictive information from large databases. Also known as Data Mining. 

Predictor Variable
The known items of information that are used to predict/estimate the values of unknown/independent variables. Also known as Independent Variable or Feature. 

Prepaid Card
A card paid for at point of sale permitting the holder to buy goods and services up to the prepaid value. 

Prepayment Penalty
A substantial charge that may be imposed for early payment of all or a large part of a loan. 

Present Discounted Value 
A financial process for calculating the present value of an amount of money to be received or paid in the future. Also known as PDV. 

Presentation Server
The target physical machine on which the data warehouse data is organised and stored for direct querying by end users, report writers, and other applications. 

Presentment
The process by which the acquirer sends the transaction to the issuer for reimbursement. 

Prime Loan
A loan offered to borrowers with an above average credit history and sometimes referred to as an "A" loan. Prime loans generally are priced lower and cost the borrower less. 

Prime Rate
Banks and lending institutions typically charge a range of interest rates for money lent. The prime rate is the minimum lending rate a bank charges its most valued customers. All interest rates charges are based on the prime rate, plus a percentage. 

Principal
The amount of a loan, excluding interest, or the amount invested, excluding income. 

Principal Member
A financial institution that directly participates as an issuing and/or acquiring member of MasterCard International. 

Private Label
A retailer's proprietary card. Accepted only at that merchant's retail establishments. 

Probability Table
A lookup table relating the outputs of a linear or non-linear discriminant analysis to the probabilities of class membership. Also known as a Model Integration Table. 

Processing Date
The earliest date stamped on the transmittal summary and draft by the member or its processor. 

Processing Fee
A fee charged by lenders or brokers to prepare a complete loan application file. 

Processor
An organisation that is connected to VISANet and or Banknet and provides authorisation and/or clearing and settlement services on behalf of a member. See Member Bank. 

Production
In a marketing sense; a function in an advertising agency to produce letters or other marketing material. 

Profile 
A method of describing a typical customer. A customer profile is created by modelling the database. 

Promissory Note
A legal contract in which the borrower promises to pay back the loan. The "promissory note" sets forth the terms and conditions that apply to the loan repayment, such as interest rate, payment due dates, etc. 

Proprietary Card
A card issued by a financial institution to its customers for access to their credit or deposit accounts. 

Prospect 
A potential customer who you have targeted. 

Prospecting 
Mailing or telemarketing to prospects who are not yet your customers. 

Prospectus
A document providing potential investors with a complete description of the product or service for sale. This would include a description of the management team, the investment objectives, historical performance, potential business risks, tax considerations or any other relevant information. 

Protected Memory Card
A smart card that requires a secret code or PIN number to be entered before the data can be sent to or received from the semiconductor chip. 

Protocol
The agreed-on rules that computers rely on to talk among themselves. A set of signals that mean “go ahead,” “got it,” “all done”, etc. 

Provision for Credit Losses
The amount deducted from income equal to the amount by which a bank adjusts its loan balances to reflect anticipated losses on them. 

Proximity Card
A contactless card whose presence and data can be sensed by an interface device not in physical contact with the card. 

Proxy
In business terms; the written authority to speak or act on behalf of an absent shareholder at a shareholders’ meeting. 

Proxy Voting
Acting or speaking on behalf of an absent shareholder on matters concerning the management of the company at a shareholders’ meeting. 

PSTN
Public Switched Telephone Network. Term used to describe the standard telephone network. 

Psychographics 
A method of grouping people by wealth, orientation, hobbies and interests. 

Pull
A term for the percentage of prospects responding to a telephonic or mail offer. 

Purchase Price
The total negotiated price, including all sales tax and extra costs payable. 

Purchasing Card
A card designed to help companies maintain control of small purchases while reducing the administrative cost associated with authorising, tracking, paying and reconciling those purchases. 

Purge 
A process of eliminating undesirable names from a list. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Q

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Qualify In Business-to-Business
A process whereby respondents to an advertisement or a mailing are determined (usually by a telephone interview) to be worth a salesman's time and attention. In efficient operations, a telemarketer will qualify an incoming lead before the name is sent to a salesman for action. 

Quantum
The amount of money that the plaintiff is seeking to claim from the Defendant. 

Query
A question designed to retrieve information from a database. The result can be a count, a cross tab or a report. 

Quintile
Segmenting the accounts or applications into 5 even groups, of 20% each. 

Quotidian
An event that occurs on a daily basis. 

Quotient
The result obtained when one amount is divided by another. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

 R

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Radio Frequency Card (RFID)
A proximity card in which the coupling between the card and the interface device is by way of radio. 

RAID
Acronym for Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disk, a new technique for storing records on PCs and Mainframes. This greatly reduces the cost of disk storage. 

Random Access
Modern computer disks can access database records in random fashion. The opposite of Random Access is Sequential Access. Random Access makes database marketing possible. 

Random Digit
A number, between 00-99, randomly assigned to an account. The purpose of this is to enable the division of accounts in a portfolio in an unbiased manner, allowing for statistically valid Champion-Challenger testing. 

Random Digit Group
A collection of random digits, e.g. 00-04, would be 5% of the portfolios accounts. 

Rank Order
To put any group of similar items in either ascending or descending order. 

Ratio
Comparison of two figures used to evaluate business performance, such as debt/equity ratio and return on investment. 

Re-alignment
The process of re-aligning the scorecard, using fitted odds to ensure that the observed odds match the predicted odds. It is recommended that scorecards are re-aligned on an annual basis. 

Re-engineering
A term referring to radically redesigning processes to improve efficiency and service 

Re-financing
An arrangement where the goods obtained through a financing agreement are sold back to the financing house by the customer and a new financing arrangement is concluded. 

Re-issue
The process of renewing a customer’s facility, typically a card, but also applicable to current accounts. 

Re-pricing
The process of changing the terms and conditions of the customers account. 

Reactivation 
A program which encourages customers with lapsed accounts to recommence purchasing. 

Ready Credit
An unsecured, revolving line of credit. 

Real Estate
Real estate mortgage loan transactions, in which terms can be revolving or instalment. 

Real Property
Real estate account types, including mortgages (conventional, VA, FHA), home improvement, mobile homes, and second mortgages, used to indicate ownership of real property. 

Reason Code
A code used to provide additional information to the receiving clearing member regarding the nature of a chargeback, subsequent presentment, fee collection, funds disbursement, or request for a source document. 

Receipt
A hard copy description of the transaction that took place at the point-of-sale, containing at minimum: date, merchant name/location, primary account number, type of account accessed, amount, reference number, and an action code. 

Recency
Used within an RFM model, this is when was the last time the customer purchased? 

Recency Delinquency
A measurement of delinquency, whereby an accounts delinquency status is governed by the last time it made a qualifying payment. For example, if an account was contractually delinquent 5 cycles, but just made a qualifying payment, then it would be considered as Recency Delinquent 0. 

Recency, Frequency, Monetary value (RFM)
This approach is used by direct marketers to develop a formula combination to generate a score. A three dimensional matrix, using Recency, Frequency and Monetary value, is developed and response rates within each cell are measured. See Cell Code. 

Record
Refers to the information contained in the database that comprises an entry for each field in the database. For example, an employee database contains a record for each employee. Also known as Case, Observation, and Row. 

Recoveries
The amount of funds that are collected from accounts that have been previously charged-off. 

Recurring Transaction
An agreed transaction charged to the cardholder on a periodic basis for recurring goods and services, i.e., health club memberships, book-of-the-month clubs, etc. 

Red Lining
The practice of declining an applicant solely on the basis of their address. 

Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disk (RAID)
This is a new technique for storing records on PCs and Mainframes, which greatly reduces the cost of disk storage. 

Reference Number
A twenty-three position number assigned by the acquiring member and used to identify a transaction. 

Referral
The message received from an issuing bank when an attempt for authorisation requires a call to the Voice Authorisation Centre or Voice Response Unit. 

Referral Rate
The percentage of new customers that begin buying this year as a result of encouragement from last year's customers. This is expressed as a percentage of last year's customers. If we had 4,000 customers last year that recommended new customers to us, of whom 240 became customers, the referral rate would be 6%. 

Referral Response
An authorisation response where the merchant or acquirer is instructed to contact the issuer for further instructions before completing the transaction. 

Refinance
A process whereby one or more existing mortgage loans are repaid by way of a new mortgage loan agreement. 

Reformatting
Changing the format of data or text to match a desired arrangement. 

Regional Network
A network which processes debit transactions for financial institutions and retailers in a given geographic area. Regional networks are not part of the national interchange system. 

Regression – Backwards
All attributes are entered into the regression model and then tested, one by one, for removal based on selection criteria. 

Regression – Forwards
All attributes are entered into the regression model one by one, based on specified selection criteria. 

Regression – Stepwise
Attributes are tested and may be entered into the regression model one at a time, all existing attributes are tested to determine if they should be dropped, based on certain selection criteria. 

Regression –Enter
All attributes are entered into the regression model, regardless of strength. 

Regression Analysis
A statistical method using formulae to combine the information from known variables to predict an unknown variable, i.e. using characteristics to predict risk. See F-Distribution. 

Regression Equation
A regression equation allows us to express the relationship between two (or more) variables algebraically. It indicates the nature of the relationship between two (or more) variables. In particular, it indicates the extent to which you can predict some variables by knowing others, or the extent to which some are associated with others. 

Regression Line
A regression line is a line drawn through the points on a scatter-plot to summarise the relationship between the variables being studied. When it slopes down (from top left to bottom right), this indicates a negative or inverse relationship between the variables; when it slopes up (from bottom right to top left), a positive or direct relationship is indicated. 

Regulatory Capital 
The aggregate capital, calculated according to a standard methodology published by regulators, required as a cushion for the company's overall risk of unexpected loss. 

Reject Inference
Any process that augments the known Good and Bad accounts in a sample by the Inferred Good and Bad accounts from the applications that were rejected. Also known as Augmentation. 

Rejects
Applications for credit that fail to pass the credit review process. 

Relational
A relational database is required for database marketing. Such databases are kept on disk and consist of related files (name and address, orders), which are related to each other by ID numbers and accessed by indexes. 

Relationship Marketing
The process of building a relationship with customers which results in the customers becoming more loyal, buying more, and staying as customers. 

Remanence
Information that is still readable after a storage medium, such as a computer disk, has been supposedly erased. 

Remittance Information
Information required by the biller to post customer bill payments effectively. 

Remittance Processing Service
An electronic routing and settlement service that accepts previously captured and authorised payment transactions from members for delivery to other financial institutions. 

Renegotiable Rate 
A type of variable rate involving a renewable short- term "balloon" note. The interest rate on the loan is generally fixed during the term of the note, but when the balloon comes due, the lender may refinance it at a higher rate. In order for the loan to be fully amortised, periodic refinancing may be necessary. 

Rental Agreement
A detailed contract with the cardholder indicating all the charges for which the cardholder is responsible. 

Replacement Plastic
A credit card that has been issued to cover the loss or theft of an existing card. 

Representment
A transaction presented to the issuer by the acquirer, when the merchant requests a reversal of a chargeback. 

Request for Proposal (RFP)
This is the document issued by a company to an external vendor to solicit a bid and proposal for goods and services. 

Rescind (also Right to Cancel)
The right to cancel or to take back. Should a borrower rescind a mortgage loan, it is as if the mortgage loan never existed. Some borrowers have by law a right to "rescind" certain mortgage loans. See Notice of Right to Cancel 

Rescission
A court order setting aside a default judgment. 

Reseller 
In information technology, a reseller, is a company that typically buys products such as computers in bulk from a manufacturer and then "adds value" to the original equipment by including specific software applications or other components. The reseller then markets and sells the customised product under its own name. 

Residual
Residual refers to an unexplained variation after fitting a regression model. It represents the difference between the observed value of the variable and the value suggested by the regression model. 

Residual Error
This is the extent to which a regression model is out. The residual error is often used for building multi-stage models as the results can simply be combined together. 

Responders
People who respond to unsolicited mail shots or other forms of advertising. 

Response Device
A code attached to outgoing direct mail that usually contains the prospect number and identifies the offer, package, list or marketing segment used. The device is especially helpful in mail tracking. See Source Code. 

Response Rates
The percentage of a mail shot that actively responds. 

Response Score
A scoring model used to predict the likelihood of a person responding to a particular offer. 

Restrictions
A requirement placed on the score point calculation program that requires certain conditions to occur. For example, a characteristic may be forced to have steadily increasing values, even though the statistics may suggest otherwise. 

Restrictive Covenant
An obligation imposed on the owner of property deeds. An example might be a restrictive covenant preventing a property from being used for business or trading purposes. 

Retained Score
This occurs when an account retains a behaviour score that was previously generated. For example, for accounts that are inactive for 6 months or more, it is typical to retain the last behaviour score that was generated. 

Retention
The tendency to keep customers buying. Success is measured by retention of customers. See Loyalty. 

Retention Budget
A budget for a programme to keep customers from leaving. 

Retention Period
The minimum time the member must retain microfilm or other reproduction of interchange paper and chargeback documentation. See Attrition Rate and Loyalty. 

Retention Rate
The percentage of customers who continue to make purchases from you in a second period, such as a year. If you had 4,000 customers who bought from you last year and this year 3,000 of those same people also make purchases, your retention rate would be 75%. 

Retrial Tables
Sometimes used to calculate the trunks and other system resources that are required. They assume that some callers will make additional attempts to reach the call centre if they receive engaged signals. 

Retrieval Request
A request by the issuer to the acquirer for a copy of the actual ticket of a transaction. The initial step that the issuer takes in the event that either the issuer or the cardholder disputes a transaction. 

Retrospective Data Analysis
Data analysis that provides insights into trends, behaviours, or events that have already occurred. 

Return on Capital
This is calculated with the following formula: Divide income from continuing operations (before changes in accounting principles), less tax-adjusted interest expense by average total capital. 

Return on Equity
Annual net income, divided by average stockholder equity for that year. 

Return on Investment
This is a key measure of the success of any direct marketing activity. It is the total net profit from a direct marketing initiative, divided by the total cost of the entire operation. ROI from an initial offer is often negative. But when customer lifetime value is taken into account, it often becomes positive. 

Revenue Score
A scoring model used to predict the likelihood of a person generating a pre-determined level of revenue for the organisation. 

Revenue Stamp
A stamp that must be placed on all documents initiating a court process in order that the papers issued are not null and void 

Review
The process by which both criminal and civil proceedings are brought before a higher court in respect of grave irregularities or illegalities occurring during the course of such proceedings. 

Revolving Credit
Accounts where the outstanding balance can fluctuate depending on usage. Most revolving account payments are tied to the account balance as a percentage of the balance. Most have credit limits that may not be exceeded. When a balance is not paid in full each month a service charge is added to the balance. 

RFM
Abbreviation for Recency, Frequency, Monetary value. 

RFP
Request for Proposals. This is the document issued by a company to an external vendor to solicit a bid and proposal for goods and services. 

Ride-Along
An offer that rides along with another offer. Also see Piggyback. 

Ridge Regression
A regression technique in which the regression coefficients are biased toward zero in order to reduce sample tuning. 

Risk
The statistical likelihood of an account becoming a bad risk in the future. Risk is measured in odds or percentages. 

Risk Management
A strategic function responsible for optimising credit losses versus business development. Also known as Credit Strategy. 

Risk Premium 
Return or extra reward for assuming risks. See Excess Return. 

Risk-Based Pricing
A strategy in which the interest rate or other terms and conditions are driven by the perceived risk of the account or customer. 

Risk-Return Ratio 
Measure of the relation between the risk inherent in a position compared to its potential gain. 

Risk-Reward Trade-off
This is the trade-off or calculation that an organisation makes when setting the cut-off score for accepting applicants. Higher risk applicants will tend to generate higher rewards and lower risk applicants will tend to generate lower rewards 

ROI
Abbreviation for Return on Investment, which is a key measure of the success of any direct marketing activity. It is the total net profit from a direct marketing initiative, divided by the total cost of the entire operation. ROI from an initial offer is often negative. But when customer lifetime value is taken into account, it often becomes positive. 

Roll Back/Roll Forward Software
A utility that enables you to switch to earlier or later versions of software while retaining the original data. 

Roll Printer
A dot matrix printer connected to a POS terminal and used to print receipts and reports on carbonless roll paper. 

Roll Rate
The percentage of accounts or balances rolling forward from one level of delinquency to the next level of delinquency. 

Roll Rate Analysis
Analysis showing the percentage of accounts that move from one level of delinquency into worse levels. Conversely, there are also accounts that reduce their levels of delinquency. 

Rollout
After a direct mail test of a few thousand letters, a rollout is the mailing to the rest of the names on the successful lists. It may be preceded by a second test or ‘continuation’. 

Root
The top-level directory in a file system. Also the administrative user in a UNIX system. 

Root Node
The node at the very top of a hierarchical tree display. This node also represents the overall distribution of values of the dependent variable. 

ROP
Abbreviation for Run of press, or Run of Paper. This is advertising space purchased from a newspaper, which may insert the advertisement wherever they see fit. 

Row
1) Refers to the information contained in the database that comprises an entry for each field in the database. For example, an employee database contains a record for each employee. Also known as Case, Observation, and Record. 2) In a database, a row represents a single record. 

Rule Induction
The extraction of useful if/then rules from data that is based on statistical significance, for explanatory or predictive purposes. 

Rule Set
A binary formula that determines processing. A rule set can be a step in an execution path. 

Run of Paper
This is advertising space purchased from a newspaper, which may insert the advertisement wherever they see fit. See ROP and Run of Press. 

Run of Press
This is advertising space purchased from a newspaper, which may insert the advertisement wherever they see fit. See ROP and Run of Paper. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
S

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

S&P 500
The Standard and Poor 500 is a widely followed benchmark of stock market performance, the S&P 500 includes 400 industrial firms, 40 financial stocks, 40 utilities, and 20 transportation stocks. 

SAA
Abbreviation for System Application Architecture, which is an IBM term for a system whereby PC's can be connected to and used to run mainframes by co-operative processing. 

SAFPS
Acronym for South African Fraud Prevention Service. The SAFPS has been established to prevent fraud by allowing members to exchange details of alleged wrongdoers when they are discovered. The service is a non-profit association registered in terms of Section 21 of the Companies Act. See Fraud. 

Sale Finance Industry
Sales loan company transactions excluding real estate account types. Terms can reflect either revolving or instalment loans (for example, GMAC, Ford Motor Credit, Toyota Motor Credit, etc.). 

Sales Draft
A paper record evidencing the purchase of goods or services by an account holder from a merchant. 

Salt
A random, but not secret, quality that is used in an encryption algorithm to ensure that results are different each time the algorithm is used, even if the key is unchanged. 

Sample
A body of accounts that are statistically analysed in order to construct a credit scorecard. Good and Bad accounts are used in the sample, along with rejected applications. 

Sample Noise
Random variations exhibited in data that is unlikely to be repeated in other samples drawn from the same source and it is not representative of any actual underlying population dynamics. 

Sample Tuning
Occurs when spurious relationships are identified, which are not part of the underlying structure. This may occur when due to a small sample size; a relationship is identified in the data, which is not representative of the population to which the model will be applied. Also known as Over-fitting. 

Sampling Plan
The overall plan for selecting representative examples of Good, Bad and Rejected applications. 

Sampling Point
The point in time at which an account is observed and classified as Good or Bad. Also known as the Classification Point or the Observation Point. 

Sampling Time Frame
The time period from which the development sample is extracted. This is normally a 12-month period. See Time Frame. 

Satisfaction Survey
A survey of customers designed as much to learn something about the customers for relationship building purposes, as it is to learn about good and bad features of the servicing of the customers. 

Satisfactory Accounts
Accounts that perform according to the terms and conditions of account usage, as defined by the credit grantor. Also known as Goods. 

Saturated Market
A situation in which everyone has the product and the market is essentially a replacement market. For example, tyres, batteries, room air conditioners, televisions. 

Savings and Loan
Loan types extended by savings and loan companies that are revolving or instalment, including credit cards, unknown account types, secured and unsecured lines of credit that are not displayed as holding revolving terms, but excluding real estate loans. 

Scaling
This is the multiplication of all of the attributes weights by a given number, which is typically 20. 

SCF 
Sectional Centre Facility. The first three digits of the U.S. Zip Code. 

Score
The total number of points that an application accrues by summing all of the weightings corresponding to the answers given on the application form and relevant data retrieved from internal or external data sources. 

Score Band
A narrow range of scores that are grouped together to form a statistically meaningful unit. These are used for monitoring purposes. Also known as Score Interval. 

Score Distributions
The distributions of the Good scores and the Bad scores. 

Score Interval
A narrow range of scores that are grouped together to form a statistically meaningful unit. These are used for monitoring purposes. Also known as Score Band. 

Score Misalignment Report
A report detailing by attribute how even the nature of the score: odds relationship is. Where the relationship is not even, the scorecard may require re-weighting. 

Score to Odds Relationship
The relationship between the score and the odds. For example a behaviour score of 660 may have associated odds of 15 Goods to 1 Bad. 

Score Weight
A numerical or point value attached to an attribute. 

Scorecard
A table listing the characteristics that provide the most predictive information and the attributes and weightings associated with each characteristic. 

Scorecard Performance Reports
Reports that are produced on a monthly basis analysing the performance of the scorecards in predicting Good, Bad and Indeterminate accounts. 

Scorecard Power
There are a number of statistical measures for quantifying the potential strength of a scorecard. These include R-squared, information value, coefficient of determination, exchange coefficient, divergence and the Kolmogorov-Smirnoff statistic. 

Scorecard Representation
An analytical model that assumes linear relationships in variables being studied. Also known as a Linear Model. 

Scoring
Classifying or attaching predictions to database records based on a model. 

Scoring Instructions
The set of instructions that are provided to the credit grantor, instructing them how to associate answers on application forms and items on credit bureau reports, with attributes used by the scoring system. 

Scoring Manual
A set of detailed instructions on how to score each characteristic and attribute in the scoring system. 

SE NUMBER
Service Entitlement Number. Assigned by and required for processing American Express, Discover, Diners Club, and JCB. 

Search
An enquiry made at a credit bureau. 

Search Engine
A program used to search for things on the World Wide Web. 

Secondary Credit Trading Market
A mechanism for transferring credit exposures from one participant to another. Secondary credit trading activities include loan syndications, loan sales and participations, asset securitisations, as well as the provision of credit enhancements and liquidity facilities to such transactions. 

Secondary Mortgage Loan
A mortgage loan that is in addition to a mortgage that already exists on the home. 

Sectional Centre Facility. (SCF)
The first three digits of the U.S. Zip Code. 

Secure Socket Layer (SSL)
A web-based technology that lets one computer verify another's identity and allows secure connections. 

Securities Credit
Refers to extensions of credit subject to regulation under section 7 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or extensions of credit by a broker or dealer subject to regulation as a broker or dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

Securitisation 
The substitution of securities for bank loans, i.e. the process that converts bank loans or other non-tradable financial transactions into tradable securities. 

Security
Property that backs up a loan and becomes the lender’s if the loan is not paid. See collateral. 

Security Interest
The lender’s right to claim collateral and sell it to recover a defaulted loan balance. Segment A section, or part of the overall credit record. Segments are discrete and may not overlap other segments. Each segment has a specific function, such as balance trades. 

Seeds
Names of friends, relatives, or employees inserted in a direct mail campaign to track delivery and quality, and to safeguard against unauthorised mailings. See Decoy. 

Segmentation
The act of breaking up a set of field values into discrete groups based on similarity. Clustering and classification trees are methods of segmenting data without or with a dependent, respectively. 

Segmentation Analysis
The process of determining how to effectively split the total population into sub-populations, in order to develop separate scorecards for the sub-populations. 

Self-cures
A classification of accounts used with Collections Triage™ that identifies account holders that will cure the delinquency, before being three cycles delinquent, without or with little collections activity. 

Self-Mailer
A direct mail piece mailed without an envelope. 

Semi-additive Measure
A semi-additive measure can only be added along certain dimensions. For example, account balances cannot be added along the time dimension, but can be added across multiple accounts. 

Sensitivity Analysis
A tool of quantitative risk analysis for testing the effect of varying parameters in a model either singly or in combination to assess their effect on outcome. Analysis tool for apportioning the variation in the model to its sources include correlation coefficients, rank correlation and regression analysis. 

Sequential
The way records are arranged on a tape. The opposite is random order, or a relational database. 

Sequential Access
Computer disks that access database records in sequential fashion. This is the opposite of Random Access. 

Sequential Name File
An alternative name for a Flat File. 

Serial Port
The place on the back of your computer where you plug in your modem. Also called a Communications Port or Comm Port. 

Server
A computer that provides a service to other computers on a network. 

Service Entitlement Number
Abbreviated as SE NUMBER. Assigned by and required for processing American Express, Discover, Diners Club, and JCB. 

Service of Process
The delivery of documents to the other party. 

Service Professional
Service and professional industry loan transactions excluding real estate transactions that can be revolving or instalment. 

SET
Secure Electronic Transaction, a MasterCard/Visa backed standard to allow safe Internet trading via encryption certification of all parties involved in a transaction. 

Setting Down
This term refers to the stage when, after all preliminary matters have been concluded and the pleadings are closed, the Plaintiff secures a date for trial. 

Settlement
The reporting and transfer of settlement amounts owed by one institution to another, as a result of clearing. 

Settlement Statement
A document issued to the merchant, indicating the sales and credit activity, billing information, discount fee and charge-backs occurring during a particular time frame. 

Shadow Credit Limit
A secondary credit limit, higher than the standard credit limit, which is unknown to the customer. This is used to enable oversells and overlimit transactions. 

Shockwave
A standard for viewing interactive multimedia on the World Wide Web. 

Shopping Cart Software
Allows the cardholder to select items from an online store and place them in a 'virtual shopping basket' or 'shopping cart.' The shopping cart remembers which items are selected while the cardholder views other items within the 'virtual storefront,' keeps a running total. The items in the shopping cart are eventually ordered if the cardholder chooses. 

Short Messaging 
A short message is a brief text message sent to or from a mobile phone subscriber through the Short Message Service (SMS). A short message is exchanged between two mobile devices. 

Short Settlement
An agreed amount, which is less than the full amount due, that the debtor will pay, and the creditor will accept, in full repayment of the debt. 

SIC Code
Abbreviation for Standard Industry Code, which is a coding system designed by the U. S. Department of Commerce for classifying the products and services produced by companies. 

Signature
In Cryptography, a method that lets anyone verify that a particular message originated from a particular person or organisation. The originator encrypts a hash of the message using his or her private key in such a way that anyone can verify this hash using the originator’s public key. 

Signature Loan
A loan made without collateral. 

Signature Panel
The area of an ID card where the cardholder enters a signature. 

Significance
A measure of the strength of a relationship between sample elements based on a statistical test. 

SIM
Subscriber Identification Module: the smart card necessary for the operation of GSM phones. 

Simple Interest Financing
Interest on the outstanding balance. See Actuarial Method. 

Simple Linear Regression
Simple linear regression aims to find a linear relationship between a response variable and a possible predictor variable by the method of least squares. 

Single Premium Insurance. 
An insurance policy which requiring one initial lump sum payment. 

Singleton
A merchant operation consisting of one location with no future plans to open another. 

Skewness
A measure of the non-symmetry of a statistical distribution. Symmetrical distributions have a skewness value of zero. 

Skimming
Copying the magnetic stripe encoding from one card to another. 

SKU
Abbreviation for Stock Keeping Unit, which is a warehouse term for the products that a company produces. Each different product has its own SKU number. 

Slicing and Dicing
The user-initiated process of navigating by calling for page displays interactively, through the specification of slices using pivoting and drilling. 

Smart Card
A card with an imbedded computer chip which stores more information, performs more functions and is more secure than a credit card or debit card. See Chip Card, Masked, Memory Card, Initialisation, ABS or Multi-Application. 

Smooth Call Arrival
Calls that arrive evenly across a period of time. This is virtually non-existent in incoming call environments. 

SMS
Abbreviation for Short Message Service. A short message is a brief text message sent to or from a mobile phone subscriber through the Short Message Service. A short message is exchanged between two mobile devices. 

SNA
A communications protocol describing a terminal-to-mainframe type connection. 

Soc
A type of newsgroup that discuss social topics, covering a huge array of subjects. 

Society For Worldwide Inter-bank Financial Telecom
Also known as SWIFT, an international payment network. 

Soft Bounce E-mail
Soft bounce e-mail is recognised by the recipient's mail server but is returned to the sender because the recipient's mailbox is full, the mail server is temporarily unavailable, or the recipient no longer has an e-mail account at that address. See Bounce E-mail or Hard Bounce E-mail. 

Soft Decline
A declined response in which authorisation is not granted on a valid card, not because it has been stolen or lost, but because the credit card already exceeds the credit line. 

Soft Market
Market characterised by an excess of supply over demand. 

Software
Programs that run on computers. Programs instruct the computer what to do in a step-by-step fashion. 

Solicitation Scoring
The process of using a pre-screen scorecard to streamline a mailing list before sending a mail shot. Also known as Pre-screen Scoring. 

Solo Mailing
A mailing promoting a single product or a limited group of related products. 

Solvency
The ability of a corporation to meet both long-term fixed expenses and have capital available for long-term expansion and growth. 

Source Code
A field to describe the origin or marketing campaign of the account. See Response Device. 

South African Fraud Prevention Service
The SAFPS has been established to prevent fraud by allowing members to exchange details of alleged wrongdoers when they are discovered. The service is a non-profit association registered in terms of Section 21 of the Companies Act. See Fraud. 

Spam
Unwanted or unrequested email or email advertising. 

Spearman Rank Correlation Coefficient
The Spearman rank correlation coefficient is one example of a correlation coefficient. It is usually calculated on occasions when it is not convenient, economic, or even possible to give actual values to variables, but only to assign a rank order to instances of each variable. It may also be a better indicator that a relationship exists between two variables when the relationship is non-linear. 

Special Comment
Describes special information about the account. 

Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV)
The merger of a bond and a derivatives trade into a single contract, usually for trading purposes. 

Sperre Code
Cancellation code. 

Split
A division of a data set based on the values found in a single field (or function of fields). See Agent Group. 

Split Dial / Capture
Process which allows the authorisation terminal to dial directly to different card processors for authorisation and electronic draft capture. 

Split Dial Authorisation
A process allowing the authorisation terminal to dial directly to different card processors for “authorisation.” In this instance, the merchant cannot be both EDC and Split Dial. 

SQL
Structured Query Language. The standardised, high-level query language that is used in relational database management systems to create and manipulate database management system objects. Also defined as a query language used when working with IBM software. Usually pronounced ‘sequal.’ 

SSL
Abbreviation for Secure Socket Layer. A web-based technology that lets one computer verify another's identity and allows secure connections 

Stand-In-Processing (STIP)
Authorisation services that are used on behalf of an issuer, when the issuer or its authorising processor is unavailable. 

Standard and Poor’s (S&P) 500
A rating index of the 500 largest, most actively traded stocks on the New York Stock Exchange. The index is a guide to the overall health of the US stock market. 

Standard Floor Limit
A type of Floor Limit. A currency amount that Visa/MasterCard has established for single transactions at specific types of merchant outlets and branches, above which authorisation is required. 

Start Up Kit
Supplies shipped to new merchants including sales slips, credit slips, batch header tickets, return envelopes, VISA/MasterCard decals, merchant plastics, imprinter slugs and instructional materials. 

Start-up Scorecard
A scorecard that has been developed when there is insufficient data to develop an empirical scorecard. In these instances, the scorecard will be developed based on the scorecard supplier’s experience. Also known as judgmental scorecard or a generic scorecard. Any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States of America. 

Statement Message
A text message that appears on a customer’s statement. This is often used for marketing or delinquent collections purposes. 

Statement Stuffer
An offer or newsletter included with the monthly invoice or statement sent to customers. 

Statistical Inference
The process of drawing conclusions from data through statistical methods. 

Statistical Model
An attempt to summarise the complexities of the ‘real world’, using available data, in the form of simplified statements or relationships. For scoring models, the ‘real world’ is that of the credit grantor. 

Status
A numeric code or alphanumeric code that identifies the condition of an account. 

Status Change
A non-monetary change such as an account change or update, i.e. new merchant address. 

Step
A component of a path. A step performs an action. 

Stepwise Regression
A 'best' regression model is sometimes developed in stages. A list of several potential explanatory variables are available and this list is repeatedly searched for variables which should be included in the model. The best explanatory variable is used first, then the second best, and so on. This procedure is known as Stepwise Regression. 

STIP
Acronym for ‘Stand-In-Processing’. Authorisation services that are used on behalf of an issuer, when the issuer or its authorising processor is unavailable. 

Stock Keeping Unit (SKU)
A warehouse term for the products that a company produces. Each different product has its own SKU number. 

Storage
Refers to the capacity a computer has for holding data. PC storage capacity is measured in megabytes whilst mainframe capacity is measured in gigabytes. 

Store Card
Store cards are issued by certain chains of shops, department stores and petrol stations. Store cards are like credit cards, charge cards or budget cards but they can only be used in the shops or group of shops which issue them. Store cards usually carry higher interest rates than the normal, internationally accepted credit cards. 

Stored-Value Card
A pre-paid payment card that stores a monetary value from which the purchase amount is deducted from the card each time the card is used. 

Straight Rollers
A classification of accounts that identifies account holders who will charge-off or declare bankruptcy within a specific period of their initial delinquent event, regardless of collections activity. 

Strategy
A strategy is a set of policies and procedures that determines how an organisation will go about achieving a business goal. Strategies are often represented in the form of decision trees. 

Strategy Machine
A Strategy Machine solution is an enterprise application that combines analytic models, data and decision management software to automate and improve decisions for a specific function or decision area. 

Strategy Management Systems
Proprietary systems for implementing account management strategy design and testing for application or behaviour scoring. 

Strategy Outcomes Reports
These are reports, produced on a monthly basis that detail the outcomes of the strategies in place. 

Strategy Performance Reports
These are reports, produced on a monthly basis that detail the performance, across a wide range of measure, of the strategies in place. 

Strategy Science
Strategy Science opens up new sources of value for business by expanding the application of analytics beyond predictions, to decisions. While scorecards predict customer behaviour, Strategy Science pinpoints the best strategy for making a decision based on these predictions. 

Stratification 
Adding demographics to a name and address file. 

Stress Test
A general term for the practice of subjecting a model to inputs that are adjusted to represent extreme or unusual changes in market factors. The sources of stress may be actual historical changes in market factors or hypothetical changes. 

Strip Off
The process of separating transactions during submission of a batch for settlement. 

Structured Query Language (SQL) 
The standardised, high-level query language that is used in relational database management systems to create and manipulate database management system objects. 

Student’s t-Test
This is a test applied to the individual coefficients of the regression equation. The coefficient divided by its standard error has a t-distribution. Also known as t-Test. 

Sub-branch
In a decision tree, a set of branches not including the parent node. 

Sub-population
Any sub-group, within the main population, that is sufficiently and significantly different from the rest of the population, to warrant being monitored, evaluated or potentially scored separately. 

Sub-tree
In a decision tree, any collection of branches other than the entire tree. 

Submission
The process of sending batch deposits to Merchant Services for processing. This may be done electronically or by mail. 

Subpoena
A summons issued by the court calling upon a person to attend the court on a certain day, at a time specified, for the purpose of giving evidence in a certain case, under a penalty in the event of failure to do so. 

Subprime Loan
These loans are priced higher than prime loans, often much higher. Loans to borrowers whose credit is less than perfect will almost always be subprime loans. There are also other circumstances that lead to subprime loans, including high outstanding debt, unproven income, etc. Even borrowers with good credit may receive subprime loans for a variety of reason, including fraud, discrimination, failure to shop around, etc. 

Subscriber
Credit grantor who has signed a service agreement with a credit bureau. 

Subscriber Code
A unique number used by each credit bureau that identifies the credit grantor inquiring or reporting data. The design of the code is unique to each credit bureau. Also see Industry Code and Industry Type. 

Substrate
Material upon which a plastic card is printed. 

Suit
An action or process in a court for the recovery of a right or claim. 

Sum-of-Cycle Report
A report that is produced at cycle billing, rather than at month-end. 

Summary Counts
A form of cross-counts that relates the status of the accounts at the classification point, to the time period in which the account was opened. These are used to confirm the sample period. 

Support Documentation
The forms necessary to effect a chargeback processing cycle, and any additional material to uphold a dispute. 

Suppression
Using data from one source to suppress or eliminate data from another source. An example would be to use in-house data to cross-reference and eliminate existing customers on a purchased external list. 

Surcharge 
An extra charge imposed on those who purchase with a credit card instead of cash. (Currently, surcharges for credit card purchases are prohibited.) 

Survey
A drawing or map showing the precise legal boundaries of a property and other physical features, prepared by a registered land surveyor. 

Survival Analysis
Survival analysis is a collection of statistical methods where the outcome variable is the time until an event occurs. The event of interest may be death or relapse from remission in epidemiology, structural failure of a component in a manufacturing reliability test, attrition of a bankcard holder, or mortgage prepayment. 

Suspect Transaction
A transaction that occurs one day prior to or following the account number being listed in the combined Warning Bulletin or listed as pickup card. 

Swap Set
Applications that would have been accepted under manual reviewing methods or previous scorecards, but would be rejected with the new scorecards and vice-versa. 

Sweepstakes
The process of offering randomly drawn prizes to all respondents mailed, regardless of whether or not they have made a purchase. Typically, this method is used to generate new prospect lists. 

SWIFT
Acronym for the Society For Worldwide Inter-bank Financial Telecommunication, an international payment network. 

Switch
Switch is a UK debit card payment scheme. Once an issuer has joined Switch, it can issue cards which will be accepted at any outlet showing the Switch logo. Similarly, cardholders can use Switch cards to make payments in any shop displaying the logo. 

Symbolic Variable
Macro variables are sometimes referred to as symbolic variables. 

System Application Architecture
Known as SAA. This is an IBM term for a system whereby PC's can be connected to and used to run mainframes by co-operative processing. 

System Information Value
The measure of the ability of a scoring system to separate good accounts from bad accounts. 

System Integrator 
Someone who can integrate the functions that have been outsourced to several different companies. 

Systematic Risk 
Risk depending on factors which influence the whole market and cannot be reduced or excluded by portfolio diversification. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
T

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

T&E
Abbreviation for Travel and Entertainment. 

T&E Card
Travel and Entertainment card issued by a private, non-bank company which deals directly with the cardholder and merchant and which generally requires payment in full monthly. 

T&E Merchant 
An airline, car-rental company, lodging, or restaurant establishment whose primary function is to provide travel/entertainment-related services. 

T-Test
This is a test applied to the individual coefficients of the regression equation. The coefficient divided by its standard error has a t-distribution. Also known as Student’s t-Test. Type of loan, such as car, instalment, business, etc. 

Tamper Evident
Methods that reveal any unauthorised physical access to sensitive material, such as devices where keys are stored. 

Tape 
Magnetic tape is 1/2 inch wide, and holds about 300,000 customer records. Tape is the cheapest way to store information, but the data is hard to get at. Tape is used for backup and for sending information from one computer to another. 

TAPI
Abbreviation for Telephony Applications Programming Interface. CTI protocol developed by Microsoft and Intel. 

Target Limit
The maximum amount that a lender is prepared to extend to a customer across all of their product holdings. There is no tolerance in this limit. 

Target Marketing 
A marketing strategy aimed at a particular individual or group rather than to mass media. 

TCP/IP 
The system networks use to communicate with each other on the Internet. It stands for Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol. 

Teaser Rate
A very low, but very temporary, short-term introductory interest rate often associated with an adjustable rate mortgage loan. See Introductory Rate. 

Technical Review
A document that summarises and highlights the information observed during the scorecard development process. 

Telemarketing
The process of using telephones to communicate with prospects or customers. Telemarketing can be either inbound or outbound calls, for example, it can be a customer phoning in to a toll free number. Telemarketing activity is variously conducted by in-house staff or sourced to external telemarketing companies. 

Telephone Banking
Banking via a telephone facility. This can be either carried out with a physical person or via an interactive voice response system (IVR). 

Telephone Bill Payment
A service that permits a customer to pay bills electronically. The customer gives a corporation the authority to debit his or her account for a specific amount or within a specified range of amounts. 

Telephony Applications Programming Interface (TAPI
CTI protocol developed by Microsoft and Intel. 

Telephony Space
The market for telephone services. 

Term
The period of time during which loan payments are made. At the end of the loan term, the loan must be paid in full. 

Term Loan
A loan intended for medium-term or long-term financing to supply cash to purchase fixed assets such as machinery, land or buildings or to renovate business premises. 

Terminal 
A device that looks like a television screen with a keyboard which enables someone to enter data into the computer, and receive data from it which you see on the screen. The alternative to a terminal is a PC. 

Terminal Based
A system that captures card transactions and holds them until settlement. 

Terminal Nodes
The nodes on the bottom-most branches or the final nodes in a decision tree analysis. Also known as Leaves. 

Terminated Merchant File (TMF)
A file listing the names of merchants and their principals whose bankcard relationships have been terminated for some reason by an acquirer. Operated jointly by VISA and MasterCard. 

Test Database
A duplicate or companion database where programmers can write and test new software prior to introducing the programmes into the production database. 

Test Digit
A number, between 00-99, randomly assigned to an account. The purpose of this is to enable the division of accounts in a portfolio in an unbiased manner, allowing for statistically valid Champion-Challenger testing. 

Test Digit Group
A collection of random digits, e.g. 00-04, would be 5% of the portfolios accounts. 

Testator
Person appointed to execute a valid will. 

Thick Consolidator
One of four models of Electronic Bill Presentment and Payment (EBPP). The biller sends all of its billing data to a central service provider that consolidates electronic bills from different billers so that the consumer has a single site of access for viewing billing information and making payments electronically. Other models include: Biller Direct, Thin Consolidator and Customer Consolidation. 

Thin Consolidator
One of four models of electronic bill presentment and payment (EBPP). The biller sends summary billing data to a central service provider, that consolidates electronic bills from different billers so that the customer has a single site of access for viewing billing information and making payments electronically. The customer may access full billing data through the billers web site. Other models include: Biller Direct, Thick Consolidator and Customer Consolidation. 

Third Party Payment
A payment to merchants via another account. 

Third-Party Processing
Processing of transactions by service providers acting under contract to card issuers or acquirers. 

Thread
An article posted to an Internet newsgroup, together with all the follow-up articles, the follow-ups to follow-ups, and so on. 

Three C’s of Credit
This refers to Character, Capacity and Collateral, which were typically used to assess applications prior to credit scoring. 

Through The Door Population (TTD)
All of the applicants for any particular credit or financial product. 

Ticket
Another name for the sales slip or its 'monetary value' that results when a credit card purchase is made. 

Tiered Interest
An arrangement where a higher balance attracts greater interest. If the balance drops, a lower interest rate applies. 

Tiger 
A Census system for mapping the entire United States by Blocks, complete with roads and other landmarks. Customers and prospects can be shown on a map using geodemographic codes to represent where they are. 

Time Frame
The time period from which the development sample is extracted. This is typically a 12-month period. Also known as Sampling Time Frame. 

Time Series Analysis
The analysis of a sequence of measurements made over a large number of time intervals. Time is usually the dominating dimension of the data. 

Time-Line Model
A means of illustrating where different activities occur in relation to each other over time. 

Title Search
An examination of official real estate records to determine if any problems (such as defects or liens) exist that may affect the title (ownership) of a home. 

TMF
Abbreviation for Terminated Merchant File. A file listing the names of merchants and their principals whose bankcard relationships have been terminated for some reason by an acquirer. Operated jointly by VISA and MasterCard. 

Total
An entire quantity; the sum of a number of items. 

Total Assets
The sum of current assets, net fixed assets, investments in affiliates, intangible assets and other non-current assets. 

Total Capitalisation
The sum of short-term debt, long-term debt and shareowner’s equity. 

Total Liabilities
The sum of current liabilities, long-term debt, non-current deferred income tax liability, other long-term liabilities and post retirement liabilities. 

Total Odds
The product of the Information Odds and the Population Odds. Also known as Overall Odds. 

Total of Payments
The sum of all instalments on a loan. 

Total Sales Price
The total payments plus down payment and any other charges. 

Total Shareowner Equity
The sum of issued capital stock, earned surplus and other equity-related accounts, minus the cost of treasury stock. 

Total Short-Term Debt
The sum of technical overdraft, short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt. 

Trace
An operational function dedicated to finding debtors who have absconded without leaving forwarding address or contact point. 

Tracking
The business function of producing regular management reports, in order to control the scorecards and lending functions. Also known as Monitoring. 

Trade
A credit account that can include any of the following: paid, zero balance, and/or past due balances. 

Trade Line
Information found on a consumer’s credit profile that is reported to a credit bureau by a creditor to offer information about an account relationship (payment habits, usage of credit, etc.). 

Training Sample 
A part of a population used to estimate or train a model. See Development Sample. 

Tranche
A group of accounts opened in the same time period. Alternatively known as a Cohort. 

Transaction
The act between an accountholder and a merchant or an acquirer that results in the generation of a transaction receipt. 

Transaction Currency
The currency in which a transaction is originally completed. 

Transaction Date
The actual date on which a transaction occurs. Used in recording and tracking transactions. 

Transaction Fees
Service costs charged to a merchant on a per-transaction basis. 

Transaction Receipt
An electronic or paper record of a transaction, generated at the Point-of-Transaction. 

Transactors
Card account-holders who pay off their balance in full each month. 

Transformation
The use of a logarithm to transform multiplications into additions. 

Transformation to Linearity
Transformations allow for changes to be made to all the values of a variable by using some mathematical operation. A transformation to linearity is a transformation of a response variable, or independent variable, or both, which produces an approximate linear relationship between the variables. 

Transformed Variable
An independent variable to which a continuous, monotonic function has been applied. Continuous independent variables are transformed when their distributions are highly non-normal. 

Transit Routing Number
A number which directs electronic ACH deposits to the proper bank Institution. Also referred to as ABA Routing Number. 

Transition Matrix
Gives the likelihood of an account, in any one state at one point in time, moving into any other state at a second point in time. 

Translation
The process of adding a number of points to each attribute, in order to make all of the scores positive. 

Travel and Entertainment Card (T&E Card)
Travel and entertainment credit cards, lines of credit, or unknown account types with terms that can reflect either revolving or instalment loans (such as, oil company cards, American Express, or carte blanche). 

Treasury Bill
A marketable U.S. government debt security with a maturity of less than one year. 

Trojan Horse Attack
Using a computer program that appears to have a legitimate purpose, such as a game, to capture sensitive information on infected computers, such as cryptographic keys. 

Truth in Lending Act
US Federal law enacted in 1969 requiring lenders to disclose key terms in extension of credit to borrowers in consumer credit applications. The act is part of the Consumer Credit Protection Act. 

TTD Population
Abbreviation for Through The Door population. 

Turnover
The total value of all sales in an organisation. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
U

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Uncertainty Analysis
A tool of quantitative risk analysis used to generate empirical histogram distributions for the outcome of a model, by means of sampling from the set of model input variables. It can be computationally intensive. 

Underwriting
The process of assessing the risk of any request for credit and reaching an accept or decline decision based on that assessment. 

Unexpected Losses
A common term used to describe exceptionally large losses. 

Unified Messaging System
The handling of voice, fax, and regular text messages as objects in a single mailbox that a user can access either with a regular e-mail client or by telephone. The PC user can open and play back voice messages, assuming their PC has multimedia capabilities. Fax images can be saved or printed. 

Uniform Resource Locator
Abbreviated as URL. This is the global address of documents and other resources available on the World Wide Web. 

Uninterruptible Power Supply
Known as UPS. This refers to a secondary power supply, allowing essential machinery and systems to keep running when the main power supply fails. 

Univariate Analysis
Any form of analysis in which only one variable is considered. 

Universal Agent
Refers to either an agent who can handle all types of incoming calls or an agent who can handle both inbound and outbound calls. 

UNIX
A popular operating systems originally developed by AT&T’s Bell Labs. 

Unsatisfactory Accounts
Accounts that have not performed according to the terms and conditions specified by the credit grantor. Also known as Bads. 

Unzipping
Unzipping is the act of extracting the files from a zipped single file or similar file archive. If the files in the package were also compressed as is common practice, unzipping also uncompresses them. 

Up Front Costs
These are costs or fees which are charged to the borrower at or before closing of the mortgage loan, such as loan application fees, appraisal fees, points, broker fees, credit report fees, real estate taxes, etc. Upfront costs can be paid by the borrower in cash or they can be added to the loan amount and financed over the life of the mortgage. 

Up Selling
A technique for prompting customers to buy upgraded or premium products. 

Update
The process of modifying or inserting new information onto a stored record. Updating can be done either in an on-line environment or via batch method. 

Upper-bound
In a decision tree, the manner in which an input value, (which comes from the application processing system or account management system), is compared with the value of a decision key. An upper bound comparison means that a match occurs if the input value is less than or equal to the key value. 

UPS
Acronym for Uninterruptible Power Supply. This refers to a secondary power supply allowing essential machinery and systems to keep running when the main power supply fails. UPS is usually either a diesel generator or a battery system. 

URL
Acronym for Uniform Resource Locator. This is the global address of documents and other resources available on the World Wide Web. 

Usenet
The Internet’s bulletin board, consisting of thousands of newsgroups. 

Utilisation
One of the questions asked on an application form. This information is needed to develop a behaviour scoring model. See Characteristic. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
V

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Valid Amount
The monetary amount displayed in the amount field on a credit profile. 

Valid Date
The date embossed by the card issuer on the credit card. An establishment cannot accept a card for payment of goods or services prior to this date. 

Validation
The process of testing the final scorecard before delivery. This is undertaken by the supplier and the process should be repeated by the user prior to the scorecard being implemented in a live environment. 

Validation Sample
A small percentage of the development sample, (typically 20%), that is excluded from the scoring model development, so that it can be used to test the statistical validity of the final scorecard. Also known as Hold-out Sample. 

Variable
A column in a database that contains the same kind of information for each record. For example, an Age field contains the age of each person in the database. A variable can be either dependent or independent. Also known as Attribute or Field. 

Variable Interest Rate
A variable rate is pegged to a certain percentage above the prime rate or some other rate and adjusted either monthly or quarterly as that rate moves. (Variable interest rates are indicated by a V following the APR, example given, 10.90V.) 

Variable Rate Loan
A loan with an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) that fluctuates according to certain economic indicators; lenders must disclose what indicators cause the rate to increase, what limits apply, and how the number or amount of payments would be affected. 

Variable Selection
Choosing among independent variables based on their relationship to the dependent (should be high) and to other independents in the selected group (should be low). We perform variable selection because methods like regression, neural networks, and clustering do not perform well with large numbers of independent variables. 

Velocity
The number of times a unit of currency is spent, or turns over, in a specific period of time. Velocity affects the amount of economic activity generated by a given money supply. 

Vendor
Any person or company that sells goods or services to somone else in the economic production chain. Parts manufacturers are vendors of parts to other manufacturers that assemble the parts into something sold to wholesalers or retailers. Retailers are vendors of products to consumers. (When you have a street fair, the people who set up booths and tables are often referred to as vendors.) In information technology as well as in other industries, the term is commonly applied to suppliers of goods and services to other companies. 

Venture Capital
Funds used for investment in companies where there is a degree of financial risk in the initial stages. See Risk Capital. 

Viewer
A program used by Internet client programs to show you files that contain items other than text. 

Viral Marketing
Marketing plans that enlist customers to make online pitches to their friends and family. 

Virtual Call Centre
A distributed call centre that acts as a single site for call handling and reporting purposes. 

Virtual Reality
A 3-D visual computer simulation that responds to your inputs so realistically that you feel you're inside another world. 

Visa
Acronym for ‘Visa International Service Association’. One of the major bankcard schemes. 

Visa Settlement Bank
A bank where Visa maintains its settlement accounts and performs funds transfer for settlement. 

VisaNet
The systems and services through which Visa delivers authorisation, clearing and settlement services to members. 

Voice Response Unit (VRU)
An automated authorisation support system for touch-tone telephones. 

Volatility
Measurement of the change in price of a financial instrument over a given time period. 

Voters Roll (VR)
The electoral roll. 

VR
Voters Roll or the electoral roll. 

VRU
Abbreviation for Voice Response Unit. An automated authorisation support system for touch-tone telephones. See Historical Reports. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
W

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

WAN
Abbreviation for Wide Area Network. A network using common carrier provided lines (in contrast to LAN). See Local Area Network. 

Wang
A stand-alone system developed to handle chargeback processing. Also called the Chargeback Image Processing System (CIPS). 

Watermark
Data added to the body of a file to attest to its origins, which is difficult to detect without a special code. 

WATS
Acronym for Wide Area Telephone Service. This is typically a call free of charge for the person initiating the call. 

Web Browser
A tool or program that allows users to surf the Web. The most popular Web browsers are Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer. See Browser. 

Weibull Distribution
The Weibull distribution is one of the most commonly used lifetime distributions in reliability engineering. It can take on the shape of other distributions, depending on the value of its shape or slope parameter. 

Weigand Wire
Magnetic media embedded in cards for access control applications. 

Weight-of-Evidence
A quality index for a piece of information that indicates the strength of the information towards explaining the difference in the level of some binary outcome variable. 

Weightings
The values that correspond to each attribute in a scorecard. 

Weights 
Numbers that are multiplied by database values to determine model or RFM scores. 

Whipsawed 
It applies to a trader who is caught in volatile price movements and makes losing trades as prices rise and fall. 

White Mail
Mail received from a buyer or donor who has not included the response device, so you cannot determine the source code of the offer which promoted his purchase or gift. 

Wide Area Network (WAN)
A network using common carrier provided lines (in contrast to LAN). See Local Area Network. 

Will
A legal document detailing how the individual wants their assets and estate handled after their death. 

Withdrawal
Money taken out of an account. The withdrawal may be in cash, by cheque or debit card, or by automatic withdrawal. 

Won’t Pays
Debtors who have defaulted on payments and who deliberately choose not to pay for whatever reason. They usually have the ability to pay but not the intent. 

Workforce Management Software
A software system that, depending on available modules, forecasts call loads, calculates staff requirements, organises schedules and tracks real-time performance of individuals and groups. 

World Wide Web (WWW): 
A hypermedia system that lets you browse through an unlimited amount of interesting information. 

Write-off
A lender’s declaration of a balance as uncollectible bad debt, and/or the process of writing off uncollected loans from account receivable books. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
X

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

X-Days
A credit card industry term to describe accounts that are between 1-29 days delinquent. Also known as 1-Cycle accounts. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Y

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Yield
The annual return an investor receives from shares, unit trusts or a stock holding. Also defined as the total proceeds from an investment. 

Yield Curve 
A diagram which shows the relationship of short-term rates to long-term rates. 

Yield Spread Premium (YSP)
This is a payment made by a lender to a mortgage broker in connection with a borrower's mortgage transaction. The payment of a YSP by a lender affects the interest rate charged to the borrower. 

Young Accounts
Refers to accounts that are new and so do not have enough payment and spend data to utilise a behaviour score. The typical definition of young accounts lies within the range of 1-6 months. 

Yoyo Mode
This describes a poorly maintained Web site which is rapidly alternating back and forth between being up and being down. 

YSP
Abbreviation for Yield Spread Premium. This is a payment made by a lender to a mortgage broker in connection with a borrower's mortgage transaction. The payment of a YSP by a lender affects the interest rate charged to the borrower. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Z

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   

Z Test
A statistical test based on the standard normal distribution. 

Z Value
The number of standard deviations a point on a distribution is away from the mean. 

Z-Scores
A scoring model used to predict the financial strength of a commercial organisation. 

Z-Scoring
A method of scoring accounting data from financial accounts, for the purpose of assessing the financial strength of commercial organisations. This approach is largely based on industry-specific accounting ratios. 

Zero-based counting
Numbering elements in an array by calling the first element zero, the second element one, the third element two, and so on. Used in many computer languages including C, C++, and Java. 

Zero-Floor Limit
A floor limit with a currency amount of zero. This means that authorisation is required for all transactions. See Floor Limit and Standard Floor Limit. 

Zeroise
The paranoid but wise practice of setting internal variables in an encryption program to zero as soon as they are no longer needed. Zeroising should be done using a subroutine call, in order not to have the code excised. 

ZIP File
A file, or collection of files, that have been compressed in the ZIP format, usually by PKZIP, WinZip, ZipIT or a compatible program. 

Zone
A section or part of the Internet’s DNS handled by a single server. In practice it is most often the last part of an Internet host name. Similar to a top-level domain name. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------